THE CTA
SEAT AND READY OK WELCOME TO
THE TUESDAY APRIL TWENTY NINTH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE REGULAR
MEETING OF THE ENTIRE BOROUGH
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL AT MEETING AGENDA PROVIDED
AT EITHER END OF THE DYAS
MANAGER KELLY WOULD YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL COMMISSIONER WE
NOTED ABSENT COMMISSIONER HERE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
MR ABRAHAMS NOTED ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS YEAR
COMMISSIONER MILT'S
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE HERE
COMMISSIONER ATOM'S TO
COMMISSIONER NORTON HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU.
>> MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY I I ANY OPPOSE THE
MOTION CARRIES.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE APRIL TWENTY
SECOND TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING MOVE BY COMMISSIONER IT
BE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT?
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE I I
OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES WE
COME TO ITEM NUMBER FIVE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS BOTH HERE IN THE
CHAMBER AND ON ZOOME TO SPEAK
UP TO THREE MINUTES AND WHEN
YOU COME TO SPEAK YOU NEED TO
ADDRESS THAT SAY YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE PODIUM YOU HAVE
THREE LIGHTS THAT INDICATE HOW
MUCH TIME YOU HAVE THE GREEN
LIGHT YOU'RE GOOD TO GO YELLOW
STAR TO WRAP IT UP AND READ
PLEASE STOP AND CEDE YOUR TIME
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR FROM
EVERYONE WHO IS GATHERED AND I
WILL BECAUSE WE ARE
ANTICIPATING HEARING FROM A LOT
OF FOLKS.
I WILL STOP US IF WE GO PAST
THREE MINUTES.
>> I DON'T MEAN TO BE RUDE IT'S
JUST TO KEEP THE MEETING MOVING
FORWARD THIS EVENING THE
COMMISSION WILL BE DISCUSSING
CHAPTERS FOUR AND FIVE OF THE
DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN AND WE KINDLY ASK IF
POSSIBLE FOR YOU TO FOCUS YOUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN COMMENTS ON
THOSE SECTIONS.
YOU CAN ADDRESS ANYTHING BUT IF
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, IF YOU
COULD ADDRESS SECTIONS FOUR AND
FIVE, WE WOULD APPRECIATE IT.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBERS, THEN THOSE WHO ARE
REMOTE ON ZOOME TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE START NINE IF
ON PHONE AND USE THE RACE HAND
FEATURE IN ZUM FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALLED EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND IN OUR MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR ZOOME USERS YOU
WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND PLEASE
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS IS ANYONE IN
THE CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME THE MIC IS
YOURS.
>> HELLO COMMISSIONERS MARK
SCARBRO TWENTY SEVENTEEN FAIR
STREET AUTHORITY WRITTEN TO YOU
TODAY BUT I WANT TO JUST RUN
THROUGH A COUPLE OF MY HIGH
LEVEL COMMENTS I GUESS FIRST IS
THAT LAST I WAS BIKING AROUND
THE WATER HILL NEIGHBORHOOD
VERY PRETTY AREA AND SAW A LOT
OF NEW DEVELOPMENT WHAT I CALL
BIGFOOTS.
THESE ARE SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES
THAT ARE BEING BUILT UP TO
THIRTY FEET THREE FEET AWAY
FROM THE SET BACK THE PROPERTY
LINES SO I REALLY LOOK FORWARD
TO THIS PLAN THAT AND THE
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING AND ALLOWS
MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE TOGETHER IN
A BUILDING THAT LOOKS VERY
SIMILAR TO THESE HUGE BUILDINGS
THAT ARE BEING BUILT AND ON
WALTER HILL KIND OF ALONG THE
SAME LINES.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE LOW
RISE DISTRICT.
THERE'S ALREADY BEEN SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE LOW RISE
DISTRICT AS WRITTEN IN THE PLAN
EVENTUALLY BECOMING MULTIPLE
DISTRICTS GOING TO GET AROUND
TO DOING THE ZONING.
AND SO I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
EQUITY AND ALONG THOSE LINES
ZONING HISTORICALLY AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND IN ANN ARBOR HAS
BEEN USED TO EXCLUDE PEOPLE
CERTAIN PEOPLE, PEOPLE OF COLOR
,LOW INCOME PEOPLE AND TOOLS
LIKE MINIMUM LOT SIZE
EXPLICITLY ARE A TOOL TO DENY
PEOPLE ACCESS TO HOUSING AND SO
WHEN WE THINK ABOUT THE LOW
RISE DISTRICT, I HOPE THAT WE
CAN ACTUALLY ADD SOME LANGUAGE
TO THE PLAN THAT EXPLICITLY
SAYS IF THEY END UP BEING
MULTIPLE UNIQUE ZONING
DISTRICTS THAT ARE PART OF THIS
LOW RISE DISTRICT THAT THEY ALL
HAVE THE SAME SITE PLAN DESIGNS
MEETING THE SAME MINIMUM LOT
SIZES, SAME SETBACKS AND WE
DON'T SAY WELL THIS DOESN'T FIT
IN THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR ANY OTHER, YOU
KNOW, MADE UP TERMS BECAUSE IT
REALLY WOULDN'T BE EQUITABLE.
AND IF WE CARE ABOUT EQUITY AS
A CITY, THAT'S SOMETHING WE
SHOULD CONSIDER RELATED POINTS
ALONG THOSE IDEAS I REALLY WE
SHOULD HAVE ONLY TWO ZONES.
SO THAT LOW RISE DISTRICT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT AND THEN A WHAT
I'LL CALL A CITY DISTRICT WE
ARE A CITY WE SHOULD DESIGN OUR
CITY AROUND THE DENSITY THAT IS
NEEDED TO SUPPORT THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE IN THE GREAT SERVICES
THAT WE HAVE HERE.
SO THAT CITY DISTRICT I THINK
COULD HAVE TAPER BUILT IN OR A
STEP BACK BUILT IN.
I THINK ONE ALREADY HAS.
SO CITY DISTRICT PARCELS THAT
ARE NEAR LOW RISE PARCELS WOULD
BE LIMITED IN HEIGHT.
BUT AS YOU GET FURTHER AWAY
FROM LOW RISE AREAS YOU DON'T
HAVE A NEW ZONE.
YOU JUST HAVE THE ONE ZONE AND
ITS HEIGHT LIMIT IS BASED ON
ITS PROXIMITY TO THE LOW RISE
PARSHALL'S SO SIMILAR I THINK
WE SHOULD JUST GET RID OF THE
FLEX DISTRICT.
IT ADDS A LOT OF WORDS THAT
ALLOWS HOUSING MAYBE D
PRIORITIZES HOUSING IN THIS
VAGUE WAY.
I DON'T THINK IT ADDS VALUE.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS SO
WE SHOULD PRIORITIZE BUILDING
HOUSING TO SUPPORT MORE PEOPLE
COMING HERE.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU KNOW BRANT HENDERSON 14
SIXTEEN BROOKLYN AVENUE.
I WANT TOUCH ON THE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT PORTION OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE NUMBERS
YOU GUYS HAVE PUT UP, IT'S NOT
A LARGE NUMBER AND YOU REALLY
WONDER HAS IT BEEN RANDOM
SAMPLE?
HOW HAVE YOU COME UP WITH THOSE
NUMBERS?
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT THERE
IS A SURVEY OF THREE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED AND YOU THINK WELL
AT LEAST IF THAT HAS BEEN AN
HONEST DISCUSSION OR HONEST
DEBATE WE AT LEAST HAVE THAT.
AND BY THAT I MEAN COMMON SENSE
WOULD SAY IF WE'RE GOING TO ADD
ANYWHERE FROM SEVENTY FIVE
THOUSAND AND NINETY FIVE
THOUSAND PEOPLE THERE'S REAL
ISSUES WITH PARKING TRAFFIC
NOISE, WATER RUNOFF WE'RE GOING
TO LOSE A LOT OF BIG OLD TREES.
THERE'S A LOT OF PROBLEMS AND
ISSUES INVOLVED.
SO YOU WOULD THINK THOSE WOULD
SOMEHOW BE TOUCHED ON IN THE
SURVEY.
BUT I GOT A COPY OF IT AND NONE
OF THAT IS DISCUSSED AT ALL.
IN FACT, IT'S MORE OF JUST A
DEMOGRAPHIC QUESTIONNAIRE
RATHER THAN IN ANY WAY WHAT YOU
WOULD THINK OF IS LIKE A
BUILDING BLOCK TO ASCERTAIN
PUBLIC PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT.
BUT I THINK THAT THREE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED OR SO SURVEY JUST
SPEAKS TO SO MANY ISSUES ABOUT
THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
IT HAS NEVER BEEN ABOUT WHAT
THE PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR WANT.
THANK YOU.
HI MY NAME IS GAURAV LEVET ONE
THREE NINE ACTUALLY MIEUX DRIVE
BUT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT WE
NEED AS MUCH HOUSING AS WE CAN
GET NOT JUST IN DOWNTOWN BUT
ALL NEIGHBORHOODS.
I GREW UP RIGHT NEXT TO THE
PITTSFIELD BRANCH OF THE
LIBRARY AND WENT TO AN AREA
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND GREW UP IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH OTHER
FAMILIES.
MY FAMILY IMMIGRATED FROM INDIA
AND HAD NO CLOSE TIES.
WE MOVED TO ANN ARBOR SO A
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH KIDS AND NEW
PARENTS FORMED THE BASIS
SUPPORT AND COMMUNITY AND I
LOVED GROWING UP HERE.
SO WHEN MY MY PARTNER AND I
TALK ABOUT STARTING OUR OWN
FAMILY WE WANT TO STAY HERE.
BUT I'M WORRIED ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF ANN ARBOR.
WHAT I WANT FOR MY FUTURE
CHILDREN IS COMMUNITY AND
SUPPORT TO BE ABLE TO WALK TO
SCHOOLS, PARKS AND LIBRARIES
AND FOR THEM TO BE ABLE TO LIVE
TO BE ABLE TO WALK TO THEIR
FRIENDS HOUSES OR PLAY WITH
OUTSIDE WITH OTHER KIDS.
BUT THAT REQUIRES LIVING AROUND
OTHER KIDS.
MANY OF OUR FRIENDS AND
COMMUNITIES CAN'T AFFORD TO
RAISE CHILDREN HERE.
THEY HAVE TO MOVE OUT TO
NEIGHBORING CITIES.
SO EVEN THOUGH WE ARE
PRIVILEGED NOT TO BE PRICED
OUT, WE ARE STILL LOSING OUR
COMMUNITY AND PEERS ALSO APS
HAS BEEN FACING DECLINING
ENROLLMENT FOR YEARS.
THEY FACE RECENT BUDGET CRISES
AND STAFF LAYOFFS IF YOUNG
FAMILIES CAN'T STAY IN THE
SCHOOL DISTRICT I WORRY WHAT
THAT MEANS FOR THE CHILDREN WHO
DO GO TO SCHOOL HERE.
WHERE WILL IT BE IN TEN OR
FIFTEEN YEARS WITH A DECADE
OF DECLINING ENROLLMENT WILL BE
THE RIGHT PLACE FOR OUR KIDS.
EVEN IF I CAN AFFORD TO LIVE
HERE I STILL DEPEND ON SO MANY
OTHER FAMILIES BEING ABLE TO DO
THE SAME FOR THE HEALTH OF OUR
SCHOOLS.
I WANT TO HAVE MORE NEIGHBORS,
ESPECIALLY YOUNG FAMILIES WHO
HAVEN'T HAD DECADES TO GROW
ENOUGH WEALTH TO LIVE HERE.
I WANT TO LIVE NEAR FAMILIES
WHO LIVE IN A VARIETY OF HOMES
INCLUDING APARTMENTS AND WHO
SEND THEIR CHILDREN TO A
COMMUNITY STRENGTH SUPPORT
REQUIRES BEING ABLE TO LIVE
NEAR EACH OTHER IN A PLACE
WHERE OUR KIDS CAN WALK TO EACH
OTHER'S HOMES.
GENTLE DENSITY WON'T GET US
THERE.
WE NEED AS MUCH HOUSING AS WE
CAN GET NOT JUST IN THE
DOWNTOWN BUT ALL NEIGHBORHOODS.
LIFE WILL GET WORSE FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO CAN LIVE HERE IF WE
DON'T LET IN THOSE WHO CANNOT
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
COMMISSIONER, THANK YOU FOR ALL
THAT YOU DO.
MY NAME IS SARAH BASSIOUNY
PRONOUN SHE ANY AND I'M A THIRD
YEAR DOCTORAL CANDIDATE IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF EPIDEMIOLOGY HERE
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I CURRENTLY LIVE AT ONE THREE
NINE ASHLEY MEWS DRIVE WITH MY
PARTNER AND I'VE PREVIOUSLY
RENTED IN ANN ARBOR.
I SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I'M TRAINED AS A SCIENTIST AND
AN EPIDEMIOLOGIST AND SO I
COULD TALK A LOT ABOUT THE
GROWING EVIDENCE THAT DESCRIBES
THE CRITICAL ROLE THAT
NEIGHBORHOODS PLAY IN OUR LIVES
AND THE ADVANTAGES OF INCREASED
DENSITY AND RESPECTIVE TIME.
I'M INSTEAD GOING TO FOCUS ON
MY EXPERIENCE AS A HUMAN BEING
WHO HAS LIVED IN A SOCIETY MY
WHOLE LIFE AND WHO DEEPLY
BELIEVES THAT RISING TIDES LIFT
ALL BOATS.
I'M BORN AND BRED FROM THE
MIDWEST BUT I HAD MOVED TO
CALIFORNIA AFTER COMPLETING MY
MASTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH FROM
MICHIGAN TWENTY SIXTEEN WHEN I
WAS MOVING BACK TO ANN ARBOR
FOR MY PH.D. IN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO I COMPARED PRICES AND MY
ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT IN SAN
DIEGO THAT I HAD NEGOTIATED
DOWN TO AN AFFORDABLE ONE
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED EIGHTY
FIVE DOLLARS PER MONTH WAS IN
MANY CASES CHEAPER THAN A ONE
BEDROOM HERE IN ANN ARBOR
ESPECIALLY ON MY MEASLY
GRADUATE STUDENT STIPEND.
I WAS SHOCKED AND BECAUSE
OF EXPERIENCES LIKE THAT I WAS
PREVIOUSLY VERY SKEPTICAL ABOUT
BUILDING MORE HOUSING WOULD BE
BETTER AND FOR ME I WAS FOCUSED
ON THE A. AFFORDABLE IF NEW
HOUSING WASN'T AFFORDABLE
WOULDN'T BE IN THE SAME BOAT AS
BEFORE IF NOT WORSE.
WOULDN'T WE SEE THIS GAP
BETWEEN THE RICHEST AND THE
POOREST AMONG US WIDEN?
BUT SINCE THEN I'VE SPOKEN TO
PEOPLE AND I'VE DONE A LOT
OF RESEARCH BECAUSE I'M A GRAD
STUDENT AND NOW I SPEAK WITH
FULL THROATED SUPPORT
OF MORE
HOUSING AND NOT JUST LOW RISE
HOUSING BUT MID RISE AND HIGH
RISE HOUSING DUPLEXES TRY
PLEXUS COMPLEXES AND OTHER
MULTIFAMILY STYLES.
THE DATA SHOWS THAT HAVING MORE
HOUSING BOTH AFFORDABLE AND
MARKET RATE HELPS TO DROP
HOUSING COSTS.
WE KNOW THIS AND SO I ASK THE
COMMISSION AND COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHAT ARE WE ACTUALLY
AFRAID OF BY RESTRICTING
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
IS THAT FEAR ACTUALLY EVIDENCE
BASED OR IS IT GROUNDED IN
HISTORICAL INEQUITIES THAT WE
ARE INADVERTENTLY CONTINUING IF
WE DENY THIS PLAN OR
RESTRICTIVE ANN ARBOR IS A
COLLEGE TOWN AND WITH ALL THE
PROS AND CONS THAT COME WITH
IT, WE STUDENTS ARE NOT A
BLIGHT ON THIS TOWN BUT AN
EXCITING OPPORTUNITY.
I CAME BACK AND I WERE NOT ONLY
TO DO MY PHD BUT BECAUSE I ALSO
WANTED TO SETTLE DOWN HERE,
HAVE A FAMILY WITH MY PARTNER
HERE AND BECOME PART OF THIS
COMMUNITY FABRIC AND I'M FAR
FROM THE ONLY ONE MANY STUDENTS
GRADUATE UNDERGRADUATE OR LIKE
THOSE WHO CAN BE HERE IN
PERSON, THOSE WHO CANNOT
PASSIONATELY WANT TO BECOME
PART OF THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY.
BUT WE CAN'T WE ARE
CONSISTENTLY PRICED OUT OF THE
LIMITED AVAILABLE HOUSING IN
WAYS THAT CAN FEEL FAR FROM
WELCOMING.
AND SO WITH THAT I BESEECH
EVERY MEMBER OF THIS COMMISSION
TO PLEASE LET ARBOR GROW, LET
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR FLOURISH AND
DO THAT BY ALLOWING MORE
HOUSING.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD AFTERNOON OR GOOD EVENING
ADAM LYCHNER SIXTEEN FOURTEEN
BROOKLYN AVENUE I WAS BORN IN
ANN ARBOR RAISED IN ANN ARBOR
WHEN THE NUMBER OF SCHOOLS
ATTENDED THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
MY WIFE SIMILARLY BORN IN ANN
ARBOR, BORN RAISED IN ARBER,
ATTENDED OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
MOVED AT ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO TO
RAISE OUR CHILDREN HERE SON
LIVES IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK STRONGLY
OPPOSED THE PLAN TO GET RID
OF SINGLE FAMILY ZONING.
>> YOU KNOW I'VE LIVED IN
BIGGER CITIES.
I LIVED IN PLACES THAT HAD THE
MID RISE ZONING.
I MOVED BACK HERE AND MY WIFE
MOVED BACK HERE BECAUSE WE
WANTED TO LIVE IN A PLACE THAT
HAS SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
A LOT OF THE PLANT IDEA
OF GETTING RID OF SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES ZONING NEAR THE DOWNTOWN
AREA.
>> WHAT IS GOING TO RESULT IN
IS BUYING UP REALLY EXPENSIVE
PROPERTIES TO BUILD REALLY
EXPENSIVE APARTMENTS.
THESE ARE PLACES WHERE STUDENTS
ARE GOING TO BE YOU KNOW, WE'VE
SEEN WE'VE ALL SEEN WHAT'S
HAPPENED THE PRICE OF STUDENT
HOUSING.
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IS TO BE
DESTROYING THESE OLD
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH BEAUTIFUL
HOMES, TREES AND UNLIMITED
NUMBER OF APARTMENTS.
THEY CAN BE BUILT INTO IT.
THAT'S NOT WHY I CAME BACK TO
ANN ARBOR.
THAT'S HOW I GREW UP HERE.
BUT MY FAMILY LIVED HERE.
I'VE HAD SO MANY PEOPLE IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD WHEN THEY FOUND
OUT ABOUT THIS THEY ASKED ME TO
COME HERE TODAY.
I'VE NEVER COME TO PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING BEFORE.
IT'S JUST THIS IS SUCH A
DISAPPOINTING THING.
THE IDEA OF REMOVING SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING, THE IDEA
OF REZONING IN A SMART WAY
MAKES SENSE.
YOU KNOW, TRANSIT AREAS
DOWNTOWN AREAS THERE ARE WAYS
THAT YOU CAN ALLOW FOR
ADDITIONAL BUILDING.
I'M NOT SURE IF THE PLAN IS TO
GET RID OF THE GREENBELT.
I REMEMBER PROBABLY A LOT OF US
HERE REMEMBER TWENTY YEARS AGO
THIRTY YEARS AGO THE PLAN WAS
LET'S BUY UP ALL THE
SURROUNDING AREAS.
THE CITY OF DENVER WAS DOING
THAT TO PREVENT A BUILDING
WHERE YOU'D BUY THE FARMLAND BY
THE AIR RIGHTS TO STOP
EXPANSION.
MAYBE THAT COULD BE UNDONE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S PART
OF THE PLAN OF THIS THING
OF THIS THIS ZONING OR NOT, BUT
THE IDEA OF JUST GETTING RID
OF SINGLE FAMILY ZONING IS VERY
,VERY DISAPPOINTING.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO
THE IDEA OF COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
I READ THEM LIVE EVERY DAY.
I'M ON MULTIPLE NONPROFIT
BOARDS PRETTY ENGAGED TYPICALLY
I DIDN'T HEAR ABOUT ANY OF THIS
UNTIL A MONTH AGO.
I NEVER WAS APPROACHED ABOUT
THIS AND MOST OF MY
NEIGHBORHOOD HAD NO IDEA ABOUT
THIS.
WHEN THEY FOUND OUT ABOUT IT
THEY WERE ALL EXTREME
DISAPPOINTED SIGNS ARE GOING UP
EVERYWHERE WE'RE ALL NOW AND
LISTSERV THEY'RE SAYING LOOK
WHAT'S GOING ON.
>> SO I REALLY ASK THAT YOU DO
NOT MOVE FORWARD THIS PLAN TO
GET RID OF SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
IN ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
HI, I'M RUSS SMITH FROM IN
CHARLTON.
WE WANT TO ASK YOU TO NOT
RESTRICT US UNDULY.
I'M DEFINITELY FOR MORE AND OUR
RIGHTS AND MORE DENSITY AND
THIS PLAN IS EXTREMELY LONG
REACHING YOU.
IF WE ARE TOO RESTRICTIVE NOW
WE'RE GOING TO PREVENT THINGS
THAT MIGHT BE USEFUL IN THE
FUTURE.
LOOK AT HOW MANY IDEAS HAVE
BEEN BUILT SINCE THAT'S BEEN
ALLOWED LIKE THE CHANGE CAN
HAPPEN EXTREMELY SLOWLY AND THE
DETRACTORS HAVE BEEN ENGAGED
SINCE TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
WE'LL HAVE PLENTY
OF OPPORTUNITIES TO HAVE THEIR
VOICES HEARD ON CONCRETE THINGS
AND IN GENERAL I DON'T WANT
ENOUGH DENSITY THAT LIKE MY
FAVORITE BAKERY IS NOT STRESSED
ABOUT WHETHER THEY CAN SURVIVE
SIMPLY BECAUSE PEOPLE CAN WALK
TO THE BAKERY AND PARKING HAS
ANYONE.
SO THAT'S GOING TO HELP AND
INCREASING DENSITY WILL
INCREASE OR TRAFFIC WILL
INCREASE WILL IMPROVE OUR
TRAFFIC BECAUSE FEWER PEOPLE
WILL NEED TO DRIVE.
WE HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
COMMUTE IN THAT WOULD LOVE TO
LIVE IN THE CITY.
>> LET'S MAKE SPACE FOR THEM.
THANK YOU.
>> HEY.
>> HELLO SHANNON WOW.
TWO EIGHT SEVEN ZERO OAKDALE
DRIVE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT ME.
I LIVE ON THE EDGE OF ANN ARBOR
JUST ON THE CITY LIMITS AND TO
GET HERE I TOOK A FORTY FIVE
MINUTE BUS COMMUTE AND I MEAN
IT SOUNDS LONG AND A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE LIKE OH LIKE
THAT'S A GRIND BUT THERE'S
SOMETHING REALLY BEAUTIFUL
ABOUT WALKING TO THE BUS STOP
AND BEING AMONG THE TREES AND
SEEING YOUR NEIGHBORS ON THE
STREET AND I JUST WISH MORE
OF OUR NEIGHBOR WAS LIKE THAT.
I WOULD LOVE TO MOVE CLOSER AND
HAVE A SHORTER COMMUTE
OF COURSE TO GET HERE BUT I'M
NOT GOING TO GET A CAR TO MAKE
THAT WORK.
I THINK THE SOLUTION IS TO
BUILD MORE HOUSING, TO BUILD IT
EVERYWHERE AND YOU KNOW, IN
RESPONSE TO MAYBE CONCERNS
ABOUT CONGESTION LIKE THERE ARE
A LOT OF PEOPLE LIKE ME WHO ARE
YOUNG AND WILL NOT SURRENDER
YOU TO BUYING A CAR TO MAKE
THINGS WORK AND THEY WANT TO BE
ON THE STREET WITH PEOPLE.
BUT EVEN ASIDE FROM MY PERSONAL
PREFERENCES AND MY POTENTIAL
QUALITY OF LIFE UPGRADE, I
THINK THERE'S SOMETHING BIGGER
HERE WHICH IS THE MORE
OBLIGATION TO UNDO THE
INEQUITIES OF EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING.
>> JUST TO BRING YOU BACK TO
YOU, ALL THE THINGS PEOPLE ARE
SEEING YOU KNOW THE WAYS IN
WHICH WE'VE WRONGED BLACK
COMMUNITIES BASICALLY DISPLACED
AND SEPARATED COMMUNITIES AND
COMMUNITY CENTERS THAT THAT
TRUMPS EVERYTHING ELSE AND ALL
OF US HERE, WHETHER WE'RE
PLANNERS, COMMISSIONERS,
COUNCIL MEMBERS OR CITIZENS, I
THINK WE HAVE THE
RESPONSIBILITY BE STEWARDS
OF THIS PLACE.
YOU KNOW, WE GET PEOPLE BEFORE
US AND BEFORE THEM PEOPLE FOR
THEM.
RIGHT.
SO NONE OF US HAVE OWNERSHIP
OVER THIS.
>> WE HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY
TO BRING PEOPLE IN AND NOT
GATEKEEPER.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS VICKI SKIDMORE.
I LIVE ON FIFTEEN TEN MORTON
AVENUE IN THE BERN'S PARK
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I AM HERE TO SUPPORT THE PLANS.
I BELIEVE VERY MUCH THAT WE
NEED MORE HOUSING OF ALL KINDS
JUST PURELY ON AN EQUITY LEVEL.
I'VE WORKED FOR THE LAST TEN
YEARS FOR THE MATERNAL INFANT
HEALTH PROGRAM OF WASHTENAW
COUNTY AND VERY DIFFERENT IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD I'M PRIVILEGED
TO LIVE IN.
I WITNESSED THE LACK OF HOUSING
FOR SO MANY PEOPLE.
JUST TO GIVE YOU AN IDEA SO THE
MATERNAL AND INFANT HEALTH
PROGRAM IS A PROGRAM FOR
PREGNANT WOMEN AND THEIR
INFANTS WHO ARE ON MEDICAID AND
FOR A LOT OF THEM HOUSING WAS A
PROBLEM AND I HAD CLIENTS WHO
WERE PREGNANT AND WHO WERE
HOMELESS AND WERE UNABLE TO GET
HOUSING AS LONG AS THEY HAD A
COUCH IN SOMEONE THEY KNEW HOW
TO SLEEP ON.
THAT'S THAT'S THE KIND
OF HOUSING SHORTAGE WE HAVE IN
THIS AREA AND SO I JUST TRULY
BELIEVE WE NEED MORE HOUSING
FOR EVERYONE AND I LOVE THE
TREES ON MY STREET.
I LOVE SPACE BUT I I CAN'T
MORALIZE SUPPORT LIMITS THAT
WOULDN'T ALLOW PEOPLE BASIC
HOUSING SO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
HI MY NAME IS TOM REED.
I LIVE AT TWO TWENTY FIVE
MURRAY OF TODAY BRIEFLY WANTED
TO SPEAK TOWARDS CHAPTER FIVE
OF THE DRAFT PLAN SPECIFICALLY
AS YOU WORK THROUGH IT PLEASE
DON'T PUT RESTRICTIONS IN
THERE.
THERE'S AN OLD SAYING YOU KNOW
SOCIETY IS GREAT WHEN THOSE WHO
PLANT SEEDS WON'T SIT IN THE
SHADE IF THOSE FUTURE TREES AND
GRANTED I SEE THE IRONY I WANT
HI BIG BIG BUILDINGS.
I'M TALKING ABOUT TREES BUT
REALLY WHAT I'M THINKING ABOUT
IS IS THE FUTURE OF WHAT COULD
BE I'M NOT DELUDED INTO
THINKING THAT, YOU KNOW, WHEN
THIS PASSES HOUSING GETS
CHEAPER, WON'T HAPPEN AFTER A
WEEK.
IT WON'T HAPPEN AFTER A YEAR.
BUT FIFTEEN, TWENTY, MAYBE TEN
WHO KNOWS IN THE FUTURE IF
THERE ARE MORE UNITS THOSE
UNITS WILL COST LESS ON AVERAGE
ALL SEQUEL NO IFS, ANDS OR
BUTS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF SMARTER,
MORE WELL INFORMED PEOPLE THAN
I WHO CAN GET INTO THE DETAILS
ABOUT THIS BUT ALL I CAN THINK
ABOUT IS MY SITUATION WHERE YOU
KNOW I MOVED HERE EIGHT YEARS
AGO SO INCREDIBLY LUCKY I DID
NOT GROW UP THINKING I TO LIVE
IN MICHIGAN BUT GOOD GOD WHAT A
WONDERFUL PLACE TO BE.
AND I BOUGHT SIX YEARS AGO
BEFORE A LOT OF THE RECENT
CHANGES IN THE HOUSING MARKET
AND I AM JUST SO INCREDIBLY
LUCKY I SEE MY COLLEAGUES, MY
FRIENDS, MY CONTEMPORARIES
GETTING PRICED OUT AT THIS
POINT AND I UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE'S NOTHING THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN HERE TODAY IN THE NEXT
YEAR THAT'S GOING TO FIX THAT
FOR THEM.
BUT THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE
SHOULD NOT TAKE ACTION TOWARDS
THE FUTURE AND TRYING TO
ALLEVIATE AND MAKING THE SYSTEM
BETTER FOR EVERYONE.
SO AS YOU WORK THROUGH THE
DRAFT PLAN, YOU KNOW, I HOPE
THAT YOU WILL REFRAIN FROM
REALLY JUST PUTTING
RESTRICTIONS THOSE PLACED TODAY
FOR THE MOST PART CAN'T BE
UNDONE RIGHT.
IT'S JUST PUTTING PUTTING
BLOCKS IN SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE SO I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
WORK.
LET'S BUILD SOME MORE HOUSES,
SOME MORE UNITS AND THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
HELLO FROM THE OF MY FIRST
APPEARANCE AT PLANET THOUGH I
DO KNOW FAR FROM THE CENTER
OF THE CITY TASK FORCE AND I'M
THE OLDEST PERSON HERE BUT I AM
EIGHTY NINE SIR AND I DO
REPRESENT MEMORY WHICH I THINK
YOU HAVE FORGOTTEN DISTRIBUTION
OF THE CITY AROUND THE OLD
COURTHOUSE AND PEOPLE OF A
CERTAIN AGE REMEMBER THAT AND
EVEN THEIR KIDS KIND
OF REMEMBER THAT AND WHEN THE
NOT DISAPPEAR THERE IS A MEMORY
OF WHAT WE ONCE HAD AND WOULD
LIKE AGAIN AND THAT QUESTION
BECAME A PUBLIC QUESTION IN
2009 AND FOR NINE YEARS OR AS A
CAMPAIGN TO FRONT THE CITY
LIBRARY GREEN CIVIC CENTER A
PLACE FOR EVERYONE FOCUSED
PUBLIC RESOURCES THAT ARE
SHARED IN THE BEST POSSIBLE WAY
AS A COMMONS WHICH THE NOBEL
PRIZE IN ECONOMICS DESCRIBED AS
THE MOST EFFICIENT WAY
OF MANAGING PUBLIC RESOURCES.
AND THAT QUESTION WAS ACTUALLY
PUT TO PEOPLE THE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT I WOULD SAY FAR
GREATER THAN WHAT YOU HAVE
REPRESENTED IN BUILD EVERYWHERE
PROJECT AND PEOPLE SAID YES AND
PUT IT INTO A CITY CHARTER.
YOU HAVE TO THE VERY LAST BUT
I'M UNDER CHAPTER EIGHT AND I
HAVE NOT SEEN ANYTHING IN YOUR
WORK THAT REPRESENTS THE SENSE
OF A CENTER OF THE CITY AND MY
VERY GREEN A CIVIC CENTER, A
PUBLIC WITH TWENTY SEVEN
THOUSAND PLUS VOTERS.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WANT IN OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN
PERPETUITY NOT UNTIL THE NEXT
MEETING OF THE NEXT COMMISSION
AND WHAT HAPPENED TO A MEMORY
ANY OF YOU AND THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WHO FORGETS HIS
OWN OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE TO PUT
OUT GET ALL THE PEOPLE TOGETHER
AROUND THAT CENTER OF THE CITY
TO GET A COLLECTIVE
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT COULD BE
MOST BEAUTIFUL AND POSITIVE AS
A FOCAL POINT OF THE CITY.
YOU HAVE NO FOCAL POINT.
JUST SAY BIGGER, BIGGER,
BIGGER, BIGGER AND WHEN THAT
QUESTION ACTUALLY CAME UP AFTER
THE BIG BUILDING WAS DEFEATED
AND PEOPLE WENT ALL OVER WHAT
ABOUT ALL THE CITY PROJECTS?
WELL, THE ONE FOR THE CENTER
OF THE CITY LAND AND I WAS AT
THOSE MEETINGS SAID WELL WE
WANT AN OPEN SPACE, A PUBLIC
PARK AND WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
CITY TO THE CITY COUNCIL
REFUSED TO ACCEPT THE REPORT
FROM THE DENHA AND KEEP MR.
HARPER IF EVERYTHING SHOULD BE
DONE.
THANK YOU.
NO, NO.
THE CENTER OF THE THANK YOU
EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS ERIC LIKE OH I
LIVE AT TWO SEVEN SEVEN NINE
PAGE AVENUE.
I JUST WANTED TO COME HERE
TODAY TO MY FIRST TIME SPEAKING
TO COME TO THESE MEETINGS AS
ONE OF THE COMMISSION KNOW THAT
I APPRECIATE THEIR COMMITMENT
TO BEING INCREDIBLY PRO HOUSING
BUT I WANT TO SAY THAT ANY
LIMITATIONS TO HOUSING AND
RETAIL TYPES ANYWHERE IN THE
CITY PREVENTS ANN ARBOR FROM
GROWING AND ONLY CONTINUES TO
WORSEN THE EXISTING HOUSING
CRISIS THAT PREVENTS PEOPLE
FROM FROM MY AGE OR FROM MY
INCOME BRACKET FROM ACTUALLY
BEING ABLE TO SET UP A LIFE IN
THE CITY.
I THINK WHAT YOU'VE SET FORWARD
IS A GREAT FIRST STEP AND I
REALLY I REALLY URGE YOU TO NOT
LET THE FEAR MONGERING ABOUT
THE LOSS OF SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
IN ANN ARBOR STOP YOU THE
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT HAVE
BEEN BUILT UP TO THE CITY
LIMITS WON'T GO ANYWHERE FOR
THE PEOPLE THAT AFFORD IT WHICH
UNFORTUNATE PRECLUDES MOST
PEOPLE COMING HERE TO HELP THE
CITY RUN AND GROW FOR PEOPLE
LIKE ME, A YOUNG MIDDLE CLASS
HOMEOWNER, I WANT MORE
NEIGHBORS.
I MOVED HERE FOR THE FIRST TIME
FOR WORK ABOUT FIVE YEARS GO
AND AFTER MOVING AWAY FOR FOR A
LITTLE WHILE I CHOSE TO MOVE
BACK BECAUSE I MISSED THE
WALKABILITY AND THE ABILITY IN
THE TRANSIT FOR SOME CONTEXT I
MOVED TO THE SUBURBS
SURROUNDING METRO DETROIT WHICH
FAMOUSLY DON'T HAVE DON'T HAVE
THOSE OPTIONS.
I WANT ALL SORTS OF DENSE
HOUSING AND CAFES AND GROCERY
STORES IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
EXIST IN PLACES AROUND DOWNTOWN
AND IN TOWN AND PLACES THAT
HISTORICALLY DID NOT HAVE TO
DEAL WITH LIMITATIONS WHEN
THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS ARE BEING
BUILT UP.
THE ONLY REASON I WAS ABLE TO
MAKE IT WORK THAT I WAS ABLE TO
MOVE BACK TO ANN ARBOR IS
BECAUSE I HAPPENED TO GET A
GOOD DEAL ON A CONDO CLOSE TO
THE EDGE OF TOWN ABOUT TWO AND
A HALF YEARS AGO.
IF I WERE TO BUY THAT HOME
TODAY I COULDN'T AFFORD IT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S RIGHT THAT
THE ONLY REASON THAT I CAN
AFFORD TO LIVE IN THE CITY IS
BECAUSE I GOT LUCKY TIMING THE
HOUSING MARKET PLEASE PROVIDE
MORE HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
THE PEOPLE GETTING PRICED OUT
ARE WONDERFUL CITY.
WE CAN ONLY GROW WITHOUT THESE
LIMITATIONS.
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS WILL LEAVE
WITHIN FIVE TWENTY EIGHT NORTH
STATE STREET AND I THINK THIS
PROCESS IS CONTENTIOUS
OBVIOUSLY SO IT'S REALLY GREAT
TO LOOK FOR ANY POSSIBLE.
THERE ARE PLACES WHERE YOU CAN
ALLOW MORE HOUSING AND
BUSINESSES AND AT THE SAME TIME
REDUCE DEVELOPMENT PRESSURE ON
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> SO I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT
TWO OF THOSE WAYS.
THE FIRST IS WITH THE WAY THE
MAP HAS DRAWN ITSELF SO MOSTLY
IT SEEMS THAT EXISTING
DISTRICTS ARE CONSOLIDATED INTO
NEW ONES ARE FOR AN HOUR OR
THREE GO INTO TRANSITION ARE
ONE AND ARE TO GO INTO LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL AND THAT MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE.
BUT THERE ARE STRANGE
EXCEPTIONS LIKE NEAR THE
HOSPITAL THERE'S CURRENT ARE
FOUR AREAS THAT ARE PUT IN LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL AND THEN
THERE'S SOME SEEMINGLY RANDOM
ARE ONE OR TWO AREAS LIKE NEAR
LESLIE THAT ARE PUT IN
TRANSITION.
>> I SUGGEST WATCHING THESE AND
MAKING THE MAP BASED ON
EXISTING ZONING BOUNDARIES WITH
NEW DISTRICTS OTHERWISE YOU
MIGHT GET SOME SINGLE
HOMEOWNERS WHO SUDDENLY HAVE
SIX OR SEVEN STOREY BUILDINGS
ALLOWED IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND I DON'T THINK A TON
OF HOUSING IS GOING TO GET
CREATED THERE BUT IT WILL BE
QUITE CONTROVERSIAL AND REALLY
SLOW DOWN THE PROCESS.
AND ON THE OTHER HAND, YOU HAVE
SOME AREAS RIGHT NEAR OUR
EMPLOYMENT CENTERS THAT ARE
LEFT OUT OF THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT.
SO WITH THAT SWAP I THINK THE
MAP IS A LOT MORE DEFENSIBLE,
MAKES A LOT MORE SENSE AND WILL
BE BETTER FOR EVERYBODY.
SECOND WIN WIN CONCERNS THIS
FLECK'S DISTRICT.
WHAT IS THE FLECK'S DISTRICT?
IT SEEMS THAT IT'S BASED ON
FLEXIBILITY IN NUISANCE
STANDARD IS ONE IDEA
OF ALLOWING MORE POTENTIALLY
SLIGHTLY NOXIOUS OR NOISY USES
IN THIS AREA.
I DON'T RECOMMEND THAT
STRATEGY.
I THINK THIS AREA REPLACES
AREAS THAT ARE CURRENTLY OFTEN
ZONED AND ONE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
IN THAT DISTRICT RIGHT NOW IS
LOUD LIBRARIES, SCHOOLS,
NURSING HOMES, DAYCARES, BANKS
BY RIGHT.
>> SO THAT'S NOT A GOOD PLACE
TO LOOSEN LOOSEN STANDARDS.
>> THESE AREAS ARE ALREADY
FUNCTIONING AS LOW DENSITY
MIXED USE DISTRICTS.
>> SO IF YOU WANT THE
TRANSITION YOU CAN ALLOW THEM
TO EVOLVE INTO DENSER MIXED USE
DISTRICTS.
I KNOW THERE'S AN ARGUMENT
ABOUT ECONOMIC DIVERSITY
ALLOWING HOUSING AND RETAIL IN
THESE AREAS THAT DON'T ALLOW
THEM NOW PROMOTES ECONOMIC
DIVERSITY THAT CAN ATTRACT
EMPLOYERS WHEREAS IF WE DON'T
ALLOW THAT IT'S VERY LIKELY
THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS GOING TO
CONTINUE TO BUY UP S INDUSTRIAL
AND THESE ARTIFICIALLY
CHEAP AREAS ON THESE IN THESE
FLEX AREAS.
>> SO INFRASTRUCTURE WHICH IS
ANOTHER SORT OF COUNTER
ARGUMENT TO ALLOWING HOUSING IN
THESE PLACES IF WE CAN ALLOW
FOR BIG EMPLOYERS AND THAT'S
THE GOAL IS TO ATTRACT BIG
EMPLOYERS WE CAN ALLOW FOR IT
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS TO
SUPPORT HOUSING AS WELL.
SO I THINK THESE ARE AREAS
WHERE DEVELOPERS MIGHT ACTUALLY
WANT TO BUILD HOUSING.
YOU COULD TAKE DEVELOPMENT
PRESSURE OFF OF THE LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
SO I REALLY RECOMMEND
ELIMINATING THE FLECK'S
DISTRICT IN THOSE AREAS
TRANSITION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
COMMISSIONER KIRK WESTFALL
THIRTY FIVE POINT FIVE TO
REPLACE.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR TAKING THE
TIME TO WORK ON THIS DRAFT.
I FEEL LIKE THIS CHAPTER IN
PARTICULAR DETERMINES WHETHER
THE PLAN MR. RUSSELL APPROACH
FROM AN EXPECTATION OF HOUSING
ABUNDANCE OR POLICY
INCREMENTALISM.
I WON'T TRY TO SUMMARIZE
EVERYTHING THAT I'VE SUBMITTED
MY WRITTEN COMMENTS BUT I'D
JUST LIKE TO PICK OUT A COUPLE
OF THINGS FOR THE MAP ITSELF.
THERE'S ISSUES BOTH SMALL AND
LARGE BUT ALL OF THEM ARE
IMPORTANT.
ONE SMALL EXAMPLE UNHELPFUL
COMBINED PARKS OPEN SPACE LABEL
OPEN SPACE HAS NO DEFINITION
AND IT'S QUESTIONABLE TO LABEL
THE PRIVATE AND URBAN GOLFING
OUTING CLUB THE SAME COLOR AS A
CITY PARK OR A PRIVATE
CEMETERY.
THERE'S ALREADY A PARKS MAP IN
THE PLAN FOR THE PURPOSE
OF LAND USE AND ZONING POLICE
CHANGES TO SIMPLY PUBLIC LAND
INSTEAD AND ADD IN ALL THE
MISSING CITY AND COUNTY PARCELS
.
YOU CAN SEE THE DIFFERENCES ON
THE MAP I SENT YOU BY THE WAY
AN URBAN GOLFING AND AN OUTING
SHOULD BE HIGH DENSITY.
THE MOST WORRISOME THING ON THE
MAP IS HOW MANY COMMERCIAL
MULTI AND MULTIFAMILY
PROPERTIES ARE BEING ASSIGNED
TO LOW RISE EVEN THOUGH THE MAP
DOESN'T TECHNICALLY ZONE
ANYTHING, IT CERTAINLY WILL
PREVENT PARCELS FROM GETTING
ZONED THE APPROPRIATE HIGHER
ZONING LATER IF WE MISTAKENLY
LEAVE THEM TO LOW RISE NOW FOR
EXAMPLE ALLOWING HIGHER DENSITY
COMMUNITIES TO FALL INTO LOW
RISE CATEGORY BY DEFAULT WILL
LIMIT WHAT THEY CAN BECOME.
GIVEN THAT A CITY COUNCIL
MAJORITY SEEMS EAGER TO IMPOSE
A HARD CAP AND PROHIBIT MANY
BUILDING TYPES IN LOW RISE NO
MATTER HOW FAR ANY GIVEN
BUILDING IS FROM ITS NEIGHBORS
PROPERTY LINE, THIS MAKES IT
CRITICAL TO LIMIT ONLY R-1 IN
ORDER TO PARCEL'S AND MAYBE A
HANDFUL OF OTHERS TO THE LOW
RISE DISTRICT.
SO IN SOME FOR THAT UNLESS
THERE'S A COMPELLING REASON I
THINK THE DEFAULT SHOULD BE FOR
EVERYTHING THAT'S NOT ONE OR
TWO OR ALREADY OR ONE TO
BUCKETT THEM INTO TRANSITION
FIRST AND THEN DO CORRECTIONS
FROM THERE.
I ALSO ENCOURAGE YOU TO LOOK AT
THE SIDE BY SIDE COMPARISON MAP
I SENT WITH A MAP THAT
HIGHLIGHTS ARE ONE OR TWO AND
EVERYTHING ELSE.
JUST LOOKING AROUND MY OWN
NEIGHBORHOOD I SEE VERY DENSE
HOUSING TYPES THAT ARE NOW
LABELED LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
WHEN THEY SHOULD BE TRANSITION.
I'M LOOKING AT GATTI'S
UNIVERSITY COMMONS OSLAND
THERE'S A LARGE FOUR STORY
CONDO BUILDING ENCLOSURE AND
HERE ON PARKWAY AMONG OTHERS
AND THAT'S JUST WITHIN A TEN
MINUTE WALK.
I GUARANTEE THAT SOME COUNCIL
MEMBERS WOULD NOT ALLOW THOSE
BUILDING TYPES INTO THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD SO LET'S NOT
DEFINE THEM AS A LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL.
IF WE DID LEAVE THEM LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL ONE OF TWO THINGS
WOULD HAPPEN.
ONE IS THAT THEY WOULD BE
CAPPED WHATEVER A CITY COUNCIL
DOES WITH LOW RATE ZONING
MAKING THEM NONCONFORMING OR
YOU'LL HAVE TO THEN CREATE
MULTIPLE SUBDISTRICTS WITHIN
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL WITH THEIR
OWN HEIGHT LIMITS AND DENSITIES
.
AND I THINK THAT WOULD BE A
MISTAKE FOR FOR MANY REASONS SO
IN SUM PLEASE IN ADDITION TO
THE PREVIOUS COMMENTS
OF CONVERTING ALL FLEX AND INTO
TRANSITION PLEASE ZONE ALL OR
BUCKETT ALL NINE ARE ONE OR TWO
PROPERTIES INTO TRANSITION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> HI MY NAME IS HOLLY ELLIOT
AND I LIVE AT ONCE 003 MILITARY
AVENUE WHICH IS RIGHT ACROSS
THE STREET FROM A LOWER
PLAYGROUND AT MAX SCHOOL AND MY
FAMILY MOVED HERE IN 1958.
I LIVED IN THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR
TO WHERE I LIVE NOW AND IT IS
THE OLDEST HOUSE PASSED 7TH
STREET ON MILLER IT'S ON AN
EIGHTEEN EIGHT MAP.
>> IT'S THE ONLY HOUSE OUT ON
MILLER SO IT HAD BIG SIDE YARDS
AND WHEN AFTER WE LIVED IN NEW
ENGLAND FOR TWENTY YEARS WE
CAME BACK TO TAKE CARE OF MY
FOLKS AND MY FATHER HAD BOUGHT
THE HOUSE DOWN THE HILL AND HE
SOLD THAT TO ME AND THEN WE GOT
ENOUGH MONEY TO BUY THE SIDE
YARD WHICH WAS OUR SLEDDING
HILL ANYWAY WHAT I WANT TO SAY
IS THAT NEIGHBORHOOD WAS A
MIRACLE NEIGHBORHOOD WHEN I WAS
GROWING UP IT WAS MAC SCHOOL
WAS RIGHT SMACK ON THE BORDER
BETWEEN A WHITE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THOSE WERE SEGREGATED
NEIGHBORHOODS BUT WE ALL WENT
TO THE SAME SCHOOL AND WE ALL
WANT TO IT AND WE ALL WENT TO
EACH OTHER'S BIRTHDAY PARTIES
AND IT WAS IT WAS INTEGRATED
FROM THE 1940S.
>> THAT WAS A MIRACLE SCHOOL.
IT DIDN'T GET SHUT DOWN LIKE
LIKE JOHN SCHOOL DID AND MY MY
POINT HERE IS THAT IN SINGLE
FAMILY I WAS KIND OF THREATENED
WHEN I SAW MILLER OUTLINED IN
YELLOW ON THE MAP MEANING YOU
COULD BUILD TALL BUILDINGS
THERE.
>> I WOULD HATE TO SEE TALL
BUILDINGS RIGHT UP TO THE
PROPERTY LINES SO THAT SMALLER
HOUSES ARE SUDDENLY SHADED AND
STUFF LIKE THAT.
I MEAN I I LIKE THAT THERE ARE
THREE BIG APARTMENT BUILDINGS
ON THE MILLER SIDE OF WEST PARK
INCLUDING MILLER MANOR AND AND
MILLER MANOR I UNDERSTAND IS
FOR LOW INCOME PEOPLE AND IT
WORKS FINE.
>> YOU KNOW THERE'S IT'S BIG
BUT IT'S SET OFF FROM THE
STREET.
IT'S NOT SMACK UP TO THE STREET
AND IT'S NOT SHADING THE HOUSES
AROUND IT ALL I CAN SAY IS IF
YOU'RE BUILDING IF YOU'RE
BUILDING APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS,
PLEASE DON'T MAKE THEM SUPER
TALL.
YOU KNOW WE NEED OUR TREES, WE
NEED OUR LAWNS AND WE NEED EACH
OTHER.
>> THAT'S ALL.
THANK YOU.
I AM FOGO AND FIFTEEN TEN
MORTON AVENUE IN BURNS PARK SO
I'M HERE TO THANK YOU ALL FOR
YOUR WORK AND TO ALSO SAY I
REALLY SUPPORT A PLAN FOR
DENSER HOUSING.
I DON'T SEE ANY WAY FOR AN
UPPER TO BECOME AFFORDABLE
WITHOUT MORE HOUSING.
WE WE'VE BEEN HERE FOR OVER
THIRTY YEARS.
WE RAISED THREE BOYS HERE ALL
WENT TO MICHIGAN.
ALL HAVE NOW GONE LEFT ANN
ARBOR AND PROBABLY NONE OF THEM
COULD AFFORD TO COME BACK TO
HANOVER EVEN NOW I'M AN
ENGINEER.
I COULDN'T AFFORD TO BUY OUR
HOUSE HERE.
YOU KNOW, I GET PAID A DECENT
AMOUNT BUT THERE'S NO WAY WE
COULD GET GET OUR HOUSE.
I PROBABLY COULD FIND SOME SOME
OTHER HOUSES BUT IT'S IT'S
GOTTEN RIDICULOUS.
SO I'M I LOVE IT THAT THE
STUDENTS ARE HERE OR THE
YOUNGER PEOPLE SAYING HOW LUCKY
THEY FEEL AND HOW MUCH THEY
WANT TO LIVE HERE AND THAT'S
AGAIN OUR KIDS A LOT OF OUR OUR
KIDS WOULD LIKE TO LIVE HERE
BUT AGAIN CAN'T AFFORD TO SO
REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO BUILD
UP BUILD MORE.
THERE'S NO WAY TO GET MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THEN BY
BUILDING MORE.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
GUTKIND FIFTH WARD AND I THINK
MIGHT BE IN OVERSIGHT.
I SUPPORT TRANSITION DISTRICT
DENSITIES LONG MAJOR ARTERIAL
CORRIDORS BUT FOR SOME REASON
THE PLAN INCLUDES MILLER AVENUE
WITH ALL OF THE ARTERIALS AND
MAJOR MATERIALS THAT ARE
RECEIVING TRANSITION DISTRICT
DESIGNATION WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF MILLER, ALL OF THE
TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS
IDENTIFIED FOR TRANSITION
DISTRICT DENSITIES ARE
ARTERIALS AND MAJOR ARTERIALS
INCLUDE PLYMOUTH, PACKARD,
MAPLE SOUTH ST. EISENHOWER,
JACKSON HERE ON WASHTENAW AND
SOUTH MAIN AND ELSWORTH.
ALL OF THESE ARTERIALS ARE
IDENTIFIED IN THE DRAFT PLAN AS
BEING BUS RAPID TRANSIT OR
PRIORITY BUS TRANSIT TRANSIT
ROUTE SERVICE.
ALL OF THESE ARTERIALS
ACCOMMODATE AN ENORMOUS NUMBER
OF VEHICULAR TRIPS GENERALLY
INCLUDE CROSS SECTIONS OF THREE
,FOUR AND FIVE TRAVEL LANES
HAVE RIGHT AWAY WITH THAT IS
GENERALLY BETWEEN 80 AND 120
FEET HAVE MAJOR SIGNALIZED
INTERSECTIONS ALONG THEM AND
INCLUDE SUBSTANTIAL RETAIL AND
OFFICE USES.
IN CONTRAST THE FOLLOWING
STREETS ARE NOT ARTERIALS OR
MAJOR ARTERIAL.
THEY FUNCTION MOSTLY AS
SIGNIFICANT COLLECTOR STREETS.
THEY INCLUDE PIONEER TRAIL
DVORIN NEXEN GATTI'S ERHART S
CHURCH PAULENE LIBERTY, DEXTER
AND MILLER.
THEY ALL HAVE TWO LANE CROSS
SECTIONS NARROW RIGHT OF WAYS
FLOW THROUGH ESTABLISHED
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS DO
NOT HAVE OFFICE AND RETAIL USES
DO NOT HAVE A MAJOR SIGNALIZED
INTERSECTION AND ARE NOT
IDENTIFIED BY THE RIDE AS
APPROPRIATE FOR BUS RAPID
TRANSIT OR PRIORITY BUS
SERVICE.
THE ONLY ONE OF THESE
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREETS
IDENTIFIED IN THE PLAN AS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE TRANSITION
DENSITY IN THE ENTIRE CITY IS
MILLER.
I'D LIKE TO REITERATE THAT
MILLER HAS THE SAME
CHARACTERISTICS AS OTHER
COLLECTOR STREETS LIKE LIBERTY
AND PONTIAC TRAIL.
IT HAS RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH
OF SIXTY SIX FEET WHICH IS THE
SAME AS MOST MINOR RESIDENTIAL
STREETS IN ANN ARBOR.
IT'S NOT IDENTIFIED AS
APPROPRIATE FOR BUS RAPID
TRANSIT OR PRIORITY BUS SERVICE
IN THE DRAFT PLAN IT HAS TWO
LANES, DOESN'T HAVE A MAJOR
SIGNALIZED INTERSECTION AND
DOESN'T HAVE A SINGLE OFFICE OR
RETAIL USE BETWEEN CHABIN AND
THE MAPLE CORRIDOR.
OTHER RESIDENTIAL COLLECTORS'
TERMINATE NEAR THE DOWNTOWN
CORE SUCH AS LIBERTY, PONTIAC,
TRYAL AND GETTYS.
BUT THOSE CORRIDORS ARE SHOWN
IN THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
I RECOMMEND THAT THE PLAN BE
CONSISTENT WITH REGARD TO ITS
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE
TRANSITION DISTRICT BEING
LOCATED ALONG MAJOR
TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS AND
THAT THE TRANS TRANSITION
DISTRICT BE REPLACED BY THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ALONG
MILLER AVENUE WEST OF CHAPMAN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HI MY NAME IS TIM ROBBINS.
I LIVE AT 440 SOUTH FIRST
STREET ANN ARBOR.
I LIVE IN THE OLD WEST SIDE AND
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET IS THE
DDA TERRITORY WHICH WAS
CHANGED.
IT WASN'T THERE WHEN I MOVED IN
THE DDA KIND OF EXPANDED AND
GRABBED A LITTLE SLICE OF THE
OLD WEST SIDE THERE.
>> I'M REALLY DISTURBED BY THE
IDEA OF WHO KNOWS WHAT KIND
OF BUILDING WOULD BE PUT ACROSS
THE STREET.
I DON'T SEE ANYTHING IN YOUR
PLAN THAT REALLY ADDRESSES THE
EXISTING HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
I JUST DON'T SEE IT.
IT JUST SEEMS TO BE VERY
APPOSITE.
ONE GOOD THING THAT'S HAPPENED
IN NEAR ME IS THE AUXILIARY
DWELLING UNITS.
I HAVE ONE THAT'S MOVED UP AND
BUILT JUST TWO HOUSES DOWN AND
IT'S BEEN DONE RESPECTFULLY
OF HISTORIC BUT DISTRICT VALUES
IT'S VERY, VERY NICE VISITED
SOMETIMES IT'S ON THE 400 BLOCK
OF FIRST STREET.
WHAT I'M CONCERNED WITH FROM A
BIG PICTURE ABOUT YOUR PLAN IS
IT SEEMS LIKE A COMPANION
DOCUMENT TO A PROSPECTUS FOR
OUTSIDE PRIVATE EQUITY TO COME
IN AND BUILD ANYTHING THAT YOU
COULD POSSIBLY BUILD AND INVEST
IN.
ANN ARBOR AND THAT ISN'T WHAT I
REALLY WANT TO SEE AUXILIARY
DWELLING UNITS, PRIVATE MONEY,
SMALLER BUILDERS, LOCAL
BUILDERS DOING THINGS AS
OPPOSED TO OUTSIDE PRIVATE
EQUITY JUST INVESTING IN THIS
TOWN
OUTSIDE MONEY WHO DOESN'T
REALLY WORRY ABOUT THE TOWN?
THEY WORRY ABOUT THEIR
INVESTMENT IN THAT ONE BUILDING
AND IF IT WERE A PROSPECTUS
THEY WOULD BE TELLING THOSE
INVESTORS WATCH OUT IF THINGS
THINGS MIGHT GO WRONG.
BUT THE PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING
TO BE LEFT HOLDING THE BAG IF
THIS IS A BAD PLAN WITH TRAFFIC
CONGESTION, CRIME, OTHER
FACTORS THAT COULD HAPPEN WITH
THIS INCREASED DENSITY IF IT'S
NOT A GOOD PLAN, THAT'S US.
THAT'S THE TAXPAYERS OF THIS
TOWN.
WE'RE THE PEOPLE THAT ARE
TAKING ON THE RISK FOR THE
PRIVATE EQUITY THE OUTSIDE
OF TOWN PRIVATE EQUITY THAT'S
GOING TO BE BUILDING THESE
BUILDINGS.
I'M A LITTLE CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT.
LET'S TRY TO KEEP IT THE
DENSITY IMPROVEMENTS ON THE OLD
LEVEL THE AIDOO THAT IS STILL
LOCAL MONEY LOCAL BUILDERS THAT
HAVE A APPRECIATION FOR THIS
TOWN.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
FOLKS.
JOHN JONATHAN LEVINE FOUR,
FIVE, SIX HILDALE TWO THUMBS UP
FOR THE PLAN THANKS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANKS TO THE STAFF, THANKS TO
THE CONSULTANTS FOR TURNING OUT
A GREAT DOCUMENT.
I'M TALKING ABOUT SOME MARGINAL
CHANGES AT THE EDGES THAT CAN
MAKE THE GOOD EASY AND WHAT I
MEAN BY MAKING A GOOD EASY IS
MAKING SURE THAT WHERE WE
ACTUALLY HAVE A LOT
OF OPPORTUNITY FOR HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT WE MAKE SURE TO
HAVE THAT HOUSING OPPORTUNITY
WE SEE IN PLACES LIKE
MINNEAPOLIS, AUSTIN, SEATTLE
WHAT HAPPENS IN TERMS
OF AFFORDABILITY WHEN THE
POLICY CITY POLICIES ADOPT A
PRO HOUSING STANCE AND I'M
ENCOURAGING THAT FOR ANN ARBOR
AS WELL.
FIRST IN THE TRANSITION ZONE AS
I UNDERSTAND IT, YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT REQUIRED ACTIVE
COMMERCIAL USES ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
I LOVE MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT,
ACTIVE USES ON THE FIRST FLOOR
FOR EXAMPLE COMMERCIAL ARE
GOING TO BE A HARD SELL AND A
LOT OF AREAS AND THE PROBLEM
WITH REQUIRING ACTIVE
COMMERCIAL USES IS IT CAN
ACTUALLY IMPEDE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT.
SO I THINK WE NEED MORE
FLEXIBILITY THAN THAT.
SECOND IS UNCAPPING THE HEIGHT
LIMIT IN THE TRANSITION ZONE TO
THE TRANSITION ZONE TAPERS DOWN
TO THE LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
ZONE.
IT DOESN'T NEED TO BE TAPERED
AT THE OTHER END BECAUSE THE
OTHER END IS FACING CORE ZONES
AND ITS HIGH CAN BE CAN BE
GUIDED BY THE PRINCIPLES OF THE
CORE ZONE.
THIRD IS TO ELIMINATE FLECK'S
DISTRICT.
FLECK'S DISTRICT IS QUITE
AMBIGUOUS IN ITS INTENT.
IT USES WORDS LIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE AVAILABILITY AND
OVERTIME ETC. THIS IS AN
EXAMPLE OF NOT MAKING A GOOD
EASY.
WE NEED TO PROVIDE CLARITY,
CLARITY FOR HOUSING DEVELOPERS
AND CLARITY IN PLACES THAT
ACTUALLY HOLD SOME OF THE
GREATEST POTENTIAL FOR HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT IN OUR TOWN.
>> FINALLY ON THE
INFRASTRUCTURE QUESTION, IT'S
IMPORTANT NOT TO LET LACK
OF INFRASTRUCTURE IMPEDE
DEVELOPMENT OF HOUSING OR OTHER
KINDS OF DEVELOPMENT WE HAVE.
WE NEED POLICIES AND I BELIEVE
THAT WE HAVE POLICIES IN PLACE
TO ENSURE THAT DEVELOPMENT PAYS
ITS WAY IN TERMS
OF INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO INFRASTRUCTURE SHOULDN'T
DRIVE OUR PLAN.
INFRASTRUCTURE SHOULD BE DRIVEN
BY OUR VISION FOR THE CITY.
AND I THINK WHAT YOU'RE HEARING
FROM THE MAJORITY OF PEOPLE
TONIGHT IS THE VISION IS A
VISION OF HOUSING GREAT.
MUCH GREATER HOUSING
AVAILABILITY AND OPENNESS TO A
MUCH BROADER RANGE OF HOUSING
TYPES AND HOUSEHOLD TYPES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, KATHY AS WELL.
LAST TIME I WAS HERE I TALKED
ABOUT GROWING UP BELOW THE
POVERTY LINE BUT BEING
FORTUNATE BECAUSE MY FATHER
BEFORE HE DIED BUILT A HOUSE
AND TOOK UP MORTGAGE INSURANCE.
SO WE HAD A HOUSE THAT WAS PAID
FOR UNLIKE MOST OF OUR
NEIGHBORS AND WE FELT PRETTY
SECURE IN THAT.
ANOTHER EXAMPLE I WANT TO GIVE
IS EVERY YEAR SANTA FOR A BIKE.
YEAR AFTER YEAR I SANTA FOR A
BIKE.
BUT MY MOTHER COULDN'T AFFORD A
I DIDN'T GET A BIKE SO FINALLY
BIKE.
I FOUND SOME ODD JOBS I WAS
I DIDN'T GET A BIKE SO FINALLY
ONLY MAYBE NINE TEN YEARS OLD
I FOUND SOME ODD JOBS I WAS
AND I BOUGHT A USED BIKE.
ONLY MAYBE NINE TEN YEARS OLD
BUT WHAT THAT LESSON TAUGHT ME
AND I BOUGHT A USED BIKE.
IS SOMETIMES TO ACHIEVE YOUR
BUT WHAT THAT LESSON TAUGHT ME
GOAL IT'S NOT JUST WISHFUL
IS SOMETIMES TO ACHIEVE YOUR
THINKING.
GOAL IT'S NOT JUST WISHFUL
YOU NEED A STRATEGY AND YOU
THINKING.
NEED TO WORK HARD TO ACHIEVE
YOU NEED A STRATEGY AND YOU
AND SOMETIMES I THINK THE
NEED TO WORK HARD TO ACHIEVE
DECISION MAKERS IN ANN ARBOR
AND SOMETIMES I THINK THE
TEN MORE TOWARDS WISHFUL
DECISION MAKERS IN ANN ARBOR
THINKING THAN ACTUALLY BEING
TEN MORE TOWARDS WISHFUL
STRATEGIC AND SENATOR ELISSA
THINKING THAN ACTUALLY BEING
SLOTKIN, SHE MAKES A DIFFERENCE
STRATEGIC AND SENATOR ELISSA
BETWEEN A WARTIME GENERAL AND A
SLOTKIN, SHE MAKES A DIFFERENCE
PEACETIME GENERAL.
BETWEEN A WARTIME GENERAL AND A
IF YOU HAVEN'T READ ABOUT THAT,
PEACETIME GENERAL.
TAKE A LOOK AT IT BECAUSE WITH
IF YOU HAVEN'T READ ABOUT THAT,
THE WAR WARTIME GENERAL YOU
TAKE A LOOK AT IT BECAUSE WITH
WANT TO ACT AND YOU WANT TO GET
THE WAR WARTIME GENERAL YOU
THINGS DONE BUT WE'RE NOT IN A
WANT TO ACT AND YOU WANT TO GET
WAR TIME RIGHT NOW.
THINGS DONE BUT WE'RE NOT IN A
WE'RE IN A PEACETIME WE NEED TO
WAR TIME RIGHT NOW.
BE STRATEGIC AND WE NEED TO
WE'RE IN A PEACETIME WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE GET THE
BE STRATEGIC AND WE NEED TO
HOUSING THAT I THINK EVERYONE
MAKE SURE THAT WE GET THE
IN ANN ARBOR WANTS BUT THAT WE
HOUSING THAT I THINK EVERYONE
DO IT IN A WAY THAT DOESN'T
IN ANN ARBOR WANTS BUT THAT WE
REFLECT THE PROCESS OF DOGE BUT
DO IT IN A WAY THAT DOESN'T
RATHER IS A VERY SYSTEM ADIC
REFLECT THE PROCESS OF DOGE BUT
MEANS WHERE WE LOOK AT OUR
RATHER IS A VERY SYSTEM ADIC
INFRASTRUCTURE, LOOK AT OUR
MEANS WHERE WE LOOK AT OUR
COSTS AND MAKE SURE THAT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE, LOOK AT OUR
PEOPLE MOVING IN AND EVEN IF
COSTS AND MAKE SURE THAT THE
THEY'RE VENTURE CAPITALISTS
PEOPLE MOVING IN AND EVEN IF
THAT THEY'RE PAYING FOR
THEY'RE VENTURE CAPITALISTS
WHATEVER WE'RE BUILDING.
THAT THEY'RE PAYING FOR
I WANT TO QUICKLY TOUCH ON
WHATEVER WE'RE BUILDING.
MILLER AVENUE MILLER AVENUE HAS
I WANT TO QUICKLY TOUCH ON
5000 TO 10000 VEHICLES A DAY.
MILLER AVENUE MILLER AVENUE HAS
IT IS IN A T A BUS ROUTE.
5000 TO 10000 VEHICLES A DAY.
THERE ARE OVER 90 RESIDENTIAL
IT IS IN A T A BUS ROUTE.
DRIVEWAYS ON THE SOUTH SIDE
THERE ARE OVER 90 RESIDENTIAL
OF THE MILLER AVENUE.
DRIVEWAYS ON THE SOUTH SIDE
BUT OUR WISHFUL THINKING
OF THE MILLER AVENUE.
DECISION MAKERS THINK THAT
BUT OUR WISHFUL THINKING
WOULD BE A GREAT PLACE FOR A
DECISION MAKERS THINK THAT
TWO WAY CYCLE.
WOULD BE A GREAT PLACE FOR A
I BROUGHT THAT UP REPEATEDLY
TWO WAY CYCLE.
WHICH IS RESULTED IN ME TAKING
I BROUGHT THAT UP REPEATEDLY
THAT UP AT THE STATE LEVEL AND
WHICH IS RESULTED IN ME TAKING
AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL AND THERE
THAT UP AT THE STATE LEVEL AND
ARE THINGS THAT WE CAN'T DO IN
AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL AND THERE
OUR EVEN THOUGH WE'RE THIS
ARE THINGS THAT WE CAN'T DO IN
WONDERFUL COOL CITY.
OUR EVEN THOUGH WE'RE THIS
OTHERS ARE THE MICHIGAN MANUAL
WONDERFUL COOL CITY.
OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL
OTHERS ARE THE MICHIGAN MANUAL
DEVICES ARE ADA COMPLIANCE.
OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL
SOME OF THE BUILDINGS ARE GOING
DEVICES ARE ADA COMPLIANCE.
UP RIGHT NOW.
SOME OF THE BUILDINGS ARE GOING
DO NOT MEET THOSE AND I HAVE
UP RIGHT NOW.
FILED COMPLAINTS BECAUSE THAT
DO NOT MEET THOSE AND I HAVE
IS NOT FAIR TO THE COMMUNITY.
FILED COMPLAINTS BECAUSE THAT
ANOTHER ONE IS SIGHT LINES WE
IS NOT FAIR TO THE COMMUNITY.
CAN'T IGNORE SIGHT LINES.
ANOTHER ONE IS SIGHT LINES WE
WHY WOULD ANYONE WANT TO
CAN'T IGNORE SIGHT LINES.
ENDANGER THE CITIZENS OF OUR
WHY WOULD ANYONE WANT TO
COMMUNITY?
ENDANGER THE CITIZENS OF OUR
>> THANK YOU.
COMMUNITY?
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
HI I'M RON KARNIG.
THANK YOU.
I LIVE AT TWELVE FIFTEEN
HI I'M RON KARNIG.
WINSTONE DRIVE IN THE NORTHEAST
I LIVE AT TWELVE FIFTEEN
SECTION OF ANN ARBOR.
WINSTONE DRIVE IN THE NORTHEAST
I'M DEFINITELY IN FAVOR OF HIGH
SECTION OF ANN ARBOR.
DENSITY IN TRANSIT CORRIDORS
I'M DEFINITELY IN FAVOR OF HIGH
AND DOWNTOWN BUT I'M STRONGLY
DENSITY IN TRANSIT CORRIDORS
OPPOSED TO DENSIFYING SINGLE
AND DOWNTOWN BUT I'M STRONGLY
FAMILY HOME NEIGHBORHOODS.
OPPOSED TO DENSIFYING SINGLE
I'M CONCERNED THAT IF THREE OR
FAMILY HOME NEIGHBORHOODS.
FOUR STORY BUILDINGS ARE
I'M CONCERNED THAT IF THREE OR
ALLOWED IN SINGLE HOME
FOUR STORY BUILDINGS ARE
NEIGHBORHOODS, WHEN WILL IT
ALLOWED IN SINGLE HOME
STOP?
NEIGHBORHOODS, WHEN WILL IT
PROBABLY NOT UNTIL THOSE
STOP?
NEIGHBORHOODS CEASE TO EXIST
PROBABLY NOT UNTIL THOSE
AND NEIGHBORHOODS SUCH AS THAT
NEIGHBORHOODS CEASE TO EXIST
IS PART OF THE REASON THAT MY
AND NEIGHBORHOODS SUCH AS THAT
FAMILY AND I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR
IS PART OF THE REASON THAT MY
MANY YEARS AGO.
FAMILY AND I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR
THE FORCED CITIES THAT YOU
MANY YEARS AGO.
REFERENCED IN THE PLAN THAT DID
THE FORCED CITIES THAT YOU
DENSIFY ARE ALL SUBSTANTIALLY
REFERENCED IN THE PLAN THAT DID
LARGER THAN ANN ARBOR FOUR
DENSIFY ARE ALL SUBSTANTIALLY
TIMES TO NINE TIMES THE
LARGER THAN ANN ARBOR FOUR
POPULATION OF ANN ARBOR.
TIMES TO NINE TIMES THE
I DON'T THINK IT'S A FAIR
POPULATION OF ANN ARBOR.
COMPARISON.
I DON'T THINK IT'S A FAIR
PEOPLE WHO MOVE TO ANN ARBOR
COMPARISON.
WANT TO LIVE IN A SMALL CITY
PEOPLE WHO MOVE TO ANN ARBOR
WITH VERY DIFFERENT CHARACTER
WANT TO LIVE IN A SMALL CITY
THAN THOSE FOUR AND IN ADDITION
WITH VERY DIFFERENT CHARACTER
,IF YOU GOOGLE THOSE FOUR
THAN THOSE FOUR AND IN ADDITION
CITIES OR FOUR OF THEM STILL
,IF YOU GOOGLE THOSE FOUR
HAVE HOUSING SHORTAGES.
CITIES OR FOUR OF THEM STILL
SO I SERIOUSLY DOUBT THAT WE'RE
HAVE HOUSING SHORTAGES.
GOING TO SOLVE THE HOUSING
SO I SERIOUSLY DOUBT THAT WE'RE
SHORTAGE BY DESTROYING SINGLE
GOING TO SOLVE THE HOUSING
FAMILY HOME NEIGHBORHOODS HERE.
SHORTAGE BY DESTROYING SINGLE
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE LOSS
FAMILY HOME NEIGHBORHOODS HERE.
OF TREES, THE LOSS OF SUNLIGHT
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE LOSS
ARE GRAY ENOUGH WINTERS GETTING
OF TREES, THE LOSS OF SUNLIGHT
EVEN LESS SUNNY INCREASE WIND
ARE GRAY ENOUGH WINTERS GETTING
COMING DOWN FROM THE TALLER
EVEN LESS SUNNY INCREASE WIND
BUILDINGS, DIFFICULTY GROWING
COMING DOWN FROM THE TALLER
SHRUBS, PLANTS, GARDENS,
BUILDINGS, DIFFICULTY GROWING
WHATEVER.
SHRUBS, PLANTS, GARDENS,
SO AS I SAID AT THE BEGINNING,
WHATEVER.
HIGH DENSITY HOUSING IN TRANSIT
SO AS I SAID AT THE BEGINNING,
CORRIDORS AND DOWNTOWN THAT
HIGH DENSITY HOUSING IN TRANSIT
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE TO ME THAT
CORRIDORS AND DOWNTOWN THAT
COULD BE DONE WITHOUT
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE TO ME THAT
DESTROYING THE CHARACTER
COULD BE DONE WITHOUT
OF SINGLE FAMILY HOME
DESTROYING THE CHARACTER
NEIGHBORHOODS.
OF SINGLE FAMILY HOME
BUT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOODS.
DESTROYING ONE OF THE THINGS
BUT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT MAKES ENORMOUS GREAT
DESTROYING ONE OF THE THINGS
WITHOUT SOLVING THE PROBLEM
THAT MAKES ENORMOUS GREAT
THAT YOU'RE HOPING TO ADDRESS.
WITHOUT SOLVING THE PROBLEM
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THAT YOU'RE HOPING TO ADDRESS.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO I'M JOHN BEAL.
I LIVE ON TWENTY HEATHER STREET
AND I GREW UP IN DETROIT IN A
VERY HIGH DENSITY NEIGHBORHOOD
AND IF I WANTED TO LIVE IN A
I WOULD HAVE MOVE TO SOMEPLACE
VERY HIGH DENSITY NEIGHBORHOOD
LIKE DETROIT NOT ANN ARBOR AND
I WOULD HAVE MOVE TO SOMEPLACE
I TOTALLY AGREE WITH THE
LIKE DETROIT NOT ANN ARBOR AND
PREVIOUS SPEAKER.
I TOTALLY AGREE WITH THE
I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR BECAUSE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER.
THERE'S NICE NEIGHBORHOODS,
I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR BECAUSE
LOTS OF PARKS, LOWER DENSITY, A
THERE'S NICE NEIGHBORHOODS,
LOT OF CHARACTER TO THE
LOTS OF PARKS, LOWER DENSITY, A
NEIGHBORS, SOME VERY COOL
LOT OF CHARACTER TO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND IF YOU JUST
NEIGHBORS, SOME VERY COOL
NILLY ANYONE BUILD MULTISTORY
NEIGHBORHOODS AND IF YOU JUST
BUILDINGS IN NEIGHBORHOODS,
NILLY ANYONE BUILD MULTISTORY
YOU'RE GOING TO IMPACT THE
BUILDINGS IN NEIGHBORHOODS,
QUALITY OF LIFE FOR THOSE
YOU'RE GOING TO IMPACT THE
PEOPLE THAT ARE CURRENTLY
QUALITY OF LIFE FOR THOSE
LIVING THERE.
PEOPLE THAT ARE CURRENTLY
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO LIKE IT.
LIVING THERE.
I LOVE LIVING IN ANN ARBOR.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO LIKE IT.
DETROIT WAS NOT A GREAT
I LOVE LIVING IN ANN ARBOR.
EXPERIENCE.
DETROIT WAS NOT A GREAT
I MEAN I COULD REACH OUT AND
EXPERIENCE.
TOUCH MY NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE.
I MEAN I COULD REACH OUT AND
IT WAS THAT CLOSE.
TOUCH MY NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE.
IT WAS THAT DOES THAT'S WHAT
IT WAS THAT CLOSE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE.
IT WAS THAT DOES THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE JUST TALKING ABOUT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE.
BUILDING MULTISTORY BUILDINGS
WE'RE JUST TALKING ABOUT
AND A NEIGHBORHOOD CAN ONLY
BUILDING MULTISTORY BUILDINGS
CARRY SO MANY PEOPLE.
AND A NEIGHBORHOOD CAN ONLY
I REALLY DON'T THINK YOU HAVE
CARRY SO MANY PEOPLE.
TAKEN THE PULSE OF THE CITIZENS
I REALLY DON'T THINK YOU HAVE
OF THE CITY.
TAKEN THE PULSE OF THE CITIZENS
I THINK YOU'VE SURVEYED A FEW
OF THE CITY.
PEOPLE I WAS SCANNING THROUGH
I THINK YOU'VE SURVEYED A FEW
THE DRAFT OF THE PLANNING
PEOPLE I WAS SCANNING THROUGH
DOCUMENT AND I SAW WE DID A
THE DRAFT OF THE PLANNING
SURVEY OF WHAT PEOPLE THOUGHT
DOCUMENT AND I SAW WE DID A
WE SHOULD BE DOING DOWNTOWN AND
SURVEY OF WHAT PEOPLE THOUGHT
THERE ARE A WHOLE TWO HUNDRED
WE SHOULD BE DOING DOWNTOWN AND
SIXTEEN PEOPLE SURVEYED.
THERE ARE A WHOLE TWO HUNDRED
HOW ARE
THOSE PEOPLE PICKED
OUT?
I MEAN THIS THIS DRAFT PLAN IS
A NICE MARKETING PLAN.
IT'S VERY QUALITATIVE.
I TOTALLY AGREE THAT AGAIN WITH
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER ANN ARBOR
HAS A FIXED SIZE AND WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SQUEEZING IN
ANOTHER 50 PERCENT A 50 PERCENT
INCREASE IN POPULATION AND A
FIXED SIZE AREA.
IT'LL BE REALLY CRAMMED AND
THOSE OTHER CITIES THAT ARE
GROWING UP, THEY'RE BIG CITIES.
THEY'VE GOT LOTS OF ROOM,
THEY'VE GOT LOTS OF SPACE.
WE DON'T SO WHEN YOU CRAM IN A
LOT MORE PEOPLE THERE'S GOING
TO BE A LOT MORE PROBLEMS.
AND I'M TELLING YOU IT'S NOT
GREAT LIVING JAMMED TOGETHER
WITH EVERYBODY.
EVERYBODY'S NOT GOING TO LIKE
IT AND I REALLY THINK YOU OUGHT
TO GO OUT AND SOMEHOW GET THE
PULSE OF WHAT YOUR CITIZENS
WANT AND WE HAVEN'T YOU HAVEN'T
REALLY GOT THE DATA YOU'VE COME
UP WITH A PLAN.
IT'S VERY QUALITATIVE.
IT'S A NICE MARKETING PLAN.
IT'S APPLE PIE AND MOTHERHOOD.
WE'RE GOING TO DO ALL THESE
GREAT THINGS BUT IT'S HIGHLY
UNLIKELY A LOT OF PEOPLE WANT
TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
IF YOU BUILD MORE UNITS THEY'LL
JUST BE MORE PEOPLE BIDDING ON
THOSE UNITS.
HOW MANY PEOPLE CAN ANN ARBOR
HOLD?
ARE WE TALKING ABOUT ANOTHER
HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE ONCE
THOSE HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE
ARE IN ANN ARBOR YOU'VE ALWAYS
GOT PEOPLE COMING TO SCHOOL
HERE.
THEY WANT TO MOVE BACK.
THERE'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE
PRESSURE.
THERE'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE THAT
NOT GOING TO BE A LOW COST
HOUSING.
>> YOU HAVE NO EVIDENCE
OF THAT.
THIS IS ALL ALL WISHFUL
THINKING.
IT'S JUST NOT GOING TO WORK OUT
AND YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
SITUATION AND THAT YOU CAN'T
TURN BACK.
YOU'RE GOING TO DESTROY A LOT
OF NEIGHBORHOODS.
I MEAN ANN ARBOR HAS A LOT
OF REALLY COOL NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT PEOPLE LIKE TO LIVE IN.
>> THANK YOU.
HOW CAN IT BE LIKE THAT
ANYMORE?
THANK YOU.
SO YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
.
HI ETHAN DO IT 5.2 SKEETS.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
SPEAK AS ELOQUENTLY AS SOME
OF THE PEOPLE BEFORE BUT ONE
OF ONE OF THE MAJOR ASSETS THAT
ANN ARBOR HAS IS THAT SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS.
THERE ARE PLACES WHERE EVERYONE
CAN GO.
THERE ARE PLACES THAT ARE SORT
OF A PARKLIKE SETTING WITHIN
TOWN AND 50 YEARS FROM NOW WHEN
THOSE ARE GONE BECAUSE WE BUILT
BUILDINGS ALL OVER THEM, WE'RE
GOING TO BE SORRY THAT THEY'RE
GONE AND PEOPLE WILL REGRET
THAT THEY'RE GONE.
>> I THINK A MAJOR ISSUE HERE
IS THAT THERE ARE A LOT
OF PLACES IN TOWN WHERE IT DOES
MAKE SENSE TO BUILD HIGH
DENSITY HOUSING AND SOME
OF THOSE PLACES EXIST IN THESE
TRANSIT TRANSIT CORRIDORS AND
IN THE DC ONE AREAS I'M WORRIED
THAT WE HAVE NOT REALLY MADE
USE OF THOSE LIKE YOU KNOW,
WE'RE NOT SEEING TONS AND TONS
OF THINGS GOING UP IN EXISTING
DC ONE AREAS.
>> YOU KNOW, WHY NOT?
I'M WORRIED THAT IF WE'RE
BUILDING THINGS IN AN URBAN
NEIGHBORHOODS WE'RE REALLY JUST
GIVING DEVELOPERS KIND OF A
TASTY TREAT PRESENT TIED UP
WITH A BOW AND KNOW IF WE LOOK
AROUND A TOWN WHAT ARE THE
THINGS THAT ARE CURRENTLY BEING
BUILT IN THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS?
IT'S CONDOS, TWO BEDROOM CONDOS
THAT ARE AT LEAST TWICE THE
COST OF THE MEDIAN SINGLE
FAMILY HOME.
>> SO THEY ARE NOT THEY'RE NOT
AFFORDABLE IN THE SHORT TERM IF
YOU BUILD WITHIN AREAS IN OTHER
AREAS THOSE THOSE BUILDINGS
MIGHT IN FACT BE AFFORDABLE AND
ARE ALSO PART OF THIS PROBLEM
IS A TRANSIT PROBLEM.
>> SOMEBODY MENTIONED TAKING A
FORTY FIVE MINUTE BUS RIDE TO
GET HERE.
WHY DID IT TAKE FORTY FIVE
MINUTES?
I MEAN WE HAVE STATE STREET.
THERE'S PLENTY OF PLACE TO
BUILD A ROOM TO BUILD THINGS
OUT ON STATE STREET AND YOU CAN
HAVE A DEDICATED BUS LANES,
RAPID TRANSIT WILL GET YOU INTO
TOWN REALLY QUICKLY SO WHY
DON'T WE HAVE THAT OK I WON'T
BELIEVE ANY OF THOSE POINTS BUT
YOU KNOW PLEASE CONSIDER JUST
BUILDING IN THE IN IN AREAS
WHERE IT MAKES SENSE WHERE IT
DOESN'T SCREW OVER EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND PLEASE LEAVE
THE SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HI.
GOOD EVENING.
MARY DURFEE TEN FIFTY TWO
OLIVIA I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO
THREE SPECIFIC THINGS IN THE
REPORT.
ONE IS THE DEFINITION
OF MISSING MIDDLE I WENT
THROUGH THE REPORT CAREFULLY
AND I FOUND THAT IT WAS
MENTIONED NINE DIFFERENT TIMES
AND IN GENERAL IT'S IT'S
MENTIONED AS A TYPE OF HOUSING
SO IT'S DUPLEXES, IT'S QUADRO
PLEXUS.
IT'S APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
NOT ONE TIME IS IT MENTIONED AS
SOLVING AFFORDABILITY AND IN
FACT COMMENTS ON THAT FROM
THOSE OF YOU WHO KNOW SAY THAT,
YOU KNOW, IT MIGHT POTENTIALLY
DECREASE THE RATE OF INCREASE
OF COSTS BUT THAT THE GOAL IS
NOT NECESSARILY AFFORDABLE.
AND I THINK THAT THAT THESE
THINGS ARE GETTING MIXED UP
PARTICULARLY TO THE PUBLIC.
THEY'RE CERTAINLY MIXED UP TO
ME AND I'VE READ THAT AT LEAST
FOUR OR FIVE TIMES SO SO I'M
I'M STRUGGLING WITH WHAT THAT
MEANS IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD ABOUT
TEN YEARS TO GO.
A COUPLE WHO ARE A BUILDER AND
AND A REALTOR BOUGHT UP FIVE
HOMES ON LINCOLN AND BALDWIN
GREAT TARM DOWN BUILT DUPLEXES.
THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL.
THEY'RE THREE OR FOUR BEDROOMS.
THEY RUN ABOUT ONE POINT TWO OR
ONE POINT THREE MILLION EACH.
SO NOW AGGREGATE THAT PROPERTY
IS WORTH TWO POINT FIVE OR TWO
POINT SIX MILLION WHICH IS
GREAT FOR PROPERTY TAXES.
IT'S BRINGING MORE MONEY INTO
THE CITY.
IT'S MORE DENSE, IT'S NOT MORE
AFFORDABLE NOW THAT MIGHT WORK
BETTER IN NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
AREN'T MINE I DON'T KNOW BUT I
DON'T KNOW IF A DEVELOPER ONE
WOULD WANT TO BUILD THERE.
>> THE SECOND THING I'D REALLY
LIKE CLARIFICATION ON IS THE
TERM GENTIL IT'S USED FOUR
TIMES IN THE REPORT AND IT
TENDS TO BE ABOUT A FOUR LEVEL
BUILDING BUT THERE ARE SO MANY
DIFFERENT WAYS TO BE GENTLE
HOUSING.
IT'S NOT JUST HOW HIGH IT IS,
IT'S HOW WIDE IT IS.
IT'S IT'S HOW SQUARE IT IS.
IT'S WHERE IT IS AND WHAT THE
PACE OF OF THE INTEGRATION
OF THIS INTO THE COMMUNITY IS.
SO I THINK WE WE REALLY HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT HOW WE USE THAT
WORD.
AND THE THIRD THING I'D LIKE TO
TO ADDRESS IS HOW WILL WE KNOW
WHEN I WAS IN MY BUSINESS LIFE
WHEN WE WOULD TRY WHEN I WOULD
TRY TO DEVELOP A NEW INITIATIVE
FIRST I WOULD SAY WHAT'S THE
PROBLEM WE'RE TRYING TO SOLVE
WHAT IS THE PROBLEM AND SO I
READ THIS WITH THAT LENZEN WENT
THROUGH THE REPORT AND JUST A
FEW OF THEM ARE WE WANT TO
REDUCE OUR DEPENDANCE ON CARS.
WE WANT TO AFFECT OCCUPANCY
RATES.
WE WANT TO HAVE LOCATIONS FOR U
OF M SPINOFFS.
WE WANT TO DEVELOP THE MISSING
MIDDLE.
WE WANT TO HAVE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THAT WAS I MEAN I COULD GO ON
AND ON SO SO IF THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO THEN HOW ARE
WE GOING TO MEASURE HOW DID WE
DO IT?
WHAT'S THE DATA THAT WE'RE
GOING TO USE THAT SAYS DID WE
DO IT RIGHT NOW WHAT'S BEING
MEASURED IS THE AMOUNT OF UNITS
THAT ARE BUILT YEARLY BUT WHAT
KIND OF UNITS ARE THEY?
ARE THEY DUPLEXES?
ARE THEY QUADRO PLEXUS?
ARE SOME OF THE UNITS THAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT BEING
BUILT?
ARE WE GETTING MORE STUDENTS IN
THE SCHOOLS BECAUSE THAT'S A
DEMOGRAPHIC THAT JUST HAS TO
GROW TO KEEP THIS CITY ALIVE.
SO I THINK THAT THOSE ARE THREE
AREAS I REALLY THINK NEED
CLARIFICATION.
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO MY MS TONI PINELLA
LIVETH THIRTEEN TWENTY EIGHT
MANOUVER ROAD AND THIS IS THE
THIRD TIME I'VE COME TO BOTHER
YOU ALL TO SPEAK TO YOU BUT
JUST EVERYONE'S CONCERNED ABOUT
THE DIVISIVENESS THAT'S BEEN
ARISING IN THE COMMUNITY
THROUGH THIS.
I'M SURE YOU ALL HAVE TO HAVE
DONE YOUR BEST HAVING LIVED IN
GERMANY FOR THIRTY YEARS.
WHAT STRIKES ME READ INTO THE
PLAN IS THAT THERE'S ALL THESE
VISUALS YOU KNOW THE THE IMAGES
,THE BUILDINGS AND STUFF.
BUT YOU REALLY KNOW IF YOU HAVE
LIVED IN DENSE HOUSING, IF
YOU'VE LIVED IN DENSE HOUSING,
WHAT WORKS WHAT MAKES IT WORK
OVER THERE IS THAT BUILDINGS
ARE CONSTRUCTED COMPLETELY
DIFFERENTLY, COMPLETELY
DIFFERENTLY THAN THEY ARE HERE.
>> THERE ARE STEEL REINFORCED
CONCRETE SLABS BETWEEN EVERY
FLOOR EVEN IN A TWO STOREY
BUILDING, A TWO STOREY PRIVATE
HOUSE HAS TO BE THERE WITH
ACOUSTIC INSULATION.
SO JUST AS AN EXAMPLE, I WAS A
TROMBONIST IN AN OPERA
ORCHESTRA.
I COULD PRACTICE WAGNERIAN
OPERA THE DEATH SCENES
OF LOHENGRIN AT FULL VOLUME.
THE PERSON NEXT DOOR COULD
SLEEP AND THIS IS THIS IS A
HUGE DIFFERENCE AND IT'S WHY WE
PICKED WHEN WE CAME TO MOVE TO
ANN ARBOR IT WAS WE PICKED A
CLOSE IN LITTLE STREETS.
THAT'S JUST WHERE THE FOR MOST
PEOPLE TO CLOSE TO THE RENTAL
AREA BECAUSE IT'S TOO LOUD.
WELL, IT WASN'T FOR US TO
LEARN.
WE LIVED IN AN URBAN AREA FOR
THIRTY YEARS AND BUT THE REASON
WAS IS BECAUSE WE IT'S
BICHLBAUM WALKABLE.
MY WIFE DOESN'T DRIVE.
WE'RE CONCERNED NOW ANYWAY THE
WHOLE STREET IS LIKE THAT.
EVERYONE IS VERY LOW CARBON BUT
NOW WE FEEL WE ARE UNDER
PRESSURE BEING AFFORDABLE LOTS
CLOSE IN THAT AND WE GET IT.
WE GET THE OFFERS EVERY WEEK
ALL THE TIME.
DO YOU WANT TO SELL YOUR HOUSE?
YOU WANT TO SELL YOUR HOUSE
BECAUSE IT'S DEVELOPERS NOW
THAT SEE WHAT'S ON THE HORIZON
IN SOME FORM OR ANOTHER
SOMETHING ON THE HORIZON LOW
RISE AND IT'S DISCONCERTING
BECAUSE WE LOOK AROUND AND I
KNOW IT'S AN OLD FASHIONED WORD
BUT WE FEEL IT'S UNFAIR THAT IF
YOU GO FURTHER OUTWARDS IN
AREAS OF BERN'S PARK OR AREAS
CONSTRUCTION IN THE 40S OR 50S
ON THE WEST SIDE OF TOWN WHERE
THERE JUST A NORMAL HOUSE HAS
TEN THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT AH
LOTS ARE THREE THOUSAND SQUARE
FOOT OR HOUSES OR ONE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT BUT
THERE'S JUST ONE EXAMPLE THAT
HAS BEEN MADE IS THAT THERE'S A
BIG NEW HOUSE THAT WAS BUILT ON
SCOTT WOOD AND THE IVES WOOD
DISTRICT OF THAT IS FIFTY THREE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT THE LOT
AND THERE ARE FOURTEEN FOR ALL
FOURTEEN LOTS ON OUR STREET
WILL FIT INTO THAT ONE LOT BUT
THAT LOT WILL NEVER BE
DISTURBED BY THIS PLAN.
NOTHING WILL HAPPEN TO IT.
THOSE PEOPLE ARE NOT SHIELDED
FROM IT TO THE PRICE OF THEIR
PROPERTY.
SO THIS IS WHAT WE HAVE THIS
FEELING OF UNFAIRNESS,
UNFAIRNESS COMING OUR WAY AND
EVEN THOUGH WE ARE EVERYTHING
THE COUNCIL AND THIS PLAN IS
TRYING TO ACHIEVE, WE ARE LOW
CARBON OR GREEN.
WE BIKE EVERYWHERE AND THE LAST
IDEA IS SOMEHOW WE GOT TO GET
THE UNIVERSITY MORE INVOLVED
BECAUSE THERE'S THIS HUGE AREA
CALLED NORTH CAMPUS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR OH HI MY NAME IS
KEN GIRL.
I LIVE AT SIXTEEN FORTY THREE
BROADWAY STREET AND I WILL ONLY
QUOTE
BRIEFLY FROM YOUR OWN
DOCUMENT THAT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT REVEALED THAT THE
PEOPLE PREFERRED DEVELOPMENT
THAT ALIGNS WITH THE EXISTING
SCALE.
THE OTHER QUOTE IS THAT
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT BUILDINGS
ARE LIMITED TO FOUR STORIES IN
THIS DISTRICT SO THE UNIQUE
IDEA I WOULD PUT FORWARD IS
THAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT 25
FIVE YEARS IN THE FUTURE.
PERHAPS YOU COULD REDUCE THAT
FOUR STORIES TO THREE STORIES
FOR THE FIRST TEN YEARS
EVERYTHING GOES WELL THEN MAKE
IT FOR YOUR STORIES FOR THE
NEXT YEAR, MAYBE EVEN FIVE
STORIES THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THE WAY NEVER DOES ANYTHING AND
EVERYTHING GETS IF THOSE IN
POWER COULD HOLD TO THE WAY THE
TEN THOUSAND THINGS WOULD LOOK
AFTER THEMSELVES IF EVEN SO
THEY TRIED TO ACT QUIET THEN
WITHIN NAMELESS THE NATURAL IN
UNNAMED IN THE UN SHAPEN IS NOT
WANTING AND NOT WANTING
STILLNESS AND STILLNESS ALL
UNDER HEAVEN ABOLISHED ZONING
.
THANK YOU.
DO GOOD EVENING.
I'M SURE YOU'RE ALL GLAD TO SEE
ME HERE AGAIN.
>> FIRST TIME I SPOKE TO YOU I
GOT YOU ALL PUMPED UP AND CAN
YOU MAKE THE NEWS BUT OTHERS
GOOD.
COULD YOU INTRODUCE YOURSELF
MR. WILLIAM.
GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONER.
MY NAME IS BRIAN CHAMBERS.
I'M THE THIRD WARD.
I'M NOT GOING TO TOKYO TODAY.
SORRY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR LEADERSHIP
ON THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN A PLAN THAT OFFERS A
ONCE IN A GENERATION
OPPORTUNITY TO SHAPE AND
ARBOR'S FUTURE WITH PURPOSE,
EQUITY AND IMAGINATION.
WE HAD A CLEAR AND URGENT TASK
BEFORE US TO EXPAND HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY WHILE PRESERVING
THE ESSENCE OF WHAT MAKES OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS SPECIAL.
WE CAN DO BOTH THROUGH GENERAL
DENSITY AND THOUGHTFUL DESIGN
DUPLEXES BY PLEXUS AND FOURPLEX
IS NEW TO ANN ARBOR.
THEY'RE PART OF OUR HISTORY AND
WITH FORM BASED ZONING WE CAN
REINTRODUCE THEM IN A WAY THAT
FITS THROUGH CLEAR RULES
OF SETBACKS HEIGHT LIMITS STEP
BACKS FOR THIRD AND FOURTH
LEVELS AND PROTECTIONS THAT
RESPECT NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE
WHILE WELCOMING NEW NEIGHBORS.
BUT THIS PLAN MUST GO FURTHER.
IT MUST FULLY EMBRACE THE
INTEGRATION OF ECOLOGICAL
STEWARDSHIP WITH HOUSING
EQUITY.
OUR NATURAL SYSTEMS TREE CANOPY
FLOOD PLAINS WETLANDS ARE NOT
OBSTACLES TO DEVELOPMENT.
THEY ARE THE VERY ASSETS THAT
CAN GUIDE IT AS RECOMMENDED BY
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
LITZ BED CORE ELEMENTS OF THE
NATURAL FEATURES MASTER PLAN
AND TREAT OUR BIO DIVERSITY AS
ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
PROTECTING IT YES BUT ALSO
INVITING PEOPLE TO EXPERIENCE
IT THROUGH BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED
PUBLIC SPACES.
THE OPPORTUNITY IS OURS AND
YOURS.
WE MUST ALSO CREATE REAL
PATHWAYS TO HOMEOWNERSHIP FOR
MIDDLE INCOME RESIDENTS.
COMMUNITY LAND TRUSTS LIKE THE
ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY LAND TRUST
ARE READY TO BUILD PERMANENTLY
AFFORDABLE HOMES FOR TEACHERS,
TRANSIT WORKERS AND HEALTH CARE
STAFF PEOPLE WHO KEEP A CITY
RUNNING.
WE THEY JUST NEED OUR ALIGNMENT
ACCESS TO LAND TAX INCREMENT
FINANCING FOR HOUSING AND GREEN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND PERMITTING
THAT ENABLES SMALL SCALE ZERO
CONSTRUCTION.
OTHER CITIES AROUND THE US HAVE
INCENTIVIZED MISSING MIDDLE
DENSITY ALONG TRANSIT PARKS AND
PUBLIC SPACES.
OUR PLAN SHOULD EXPLICITLY DO
THIS.
THAT'S WHY THE NEWLY
ESTABLISHED OFFICE OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT IS SUCH AN
IMPORTANT PARTNER FOR YOU WITH
A MISSION TO FOSTER HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AND PACKAGE
PROPERTIES FOR CO DEVELOPMENT,
IT CAN SERVE AS A BRIDGE
BETWEEN PUBLIC LAND STEWARDSHIP
AND COMMUNITY BASED BUILDERS
WHEN ALIGNED WITH THIS LAND USE
PLAN THAT OFFERS CAN HELP TURN
BOLD IDEAS INTO REAL HOMES.
I KNOW THERE ARE CONCERNS THAT
NEW HOMES AT MARKET RATE WON'T
BE AFFORDABLE BUT RESTRICTING
HOUSING SUPPLY ONLY DRIVES UP
PRICES ACROSS THE BOARD.
WE STABILIZE NEIGHBORHOODS FOR
EXPANDING OPTIONS, NOT LIMITING
THEM.
IN SHORT AND ABBOTT DOESN'T
HAVE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN GROWTH
AND SUSTAINABILITY OR CHARACTER
AND INCLUSION.
WE CAN LEAD WITH BOTH
ECOLOGICAL HEALTH STRENGTHENS
HOUSING AND WALKABILITY WHERE
HOUSING CHOICE STRENGTHENS
EQUITY.
AND THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN.
GENERAL DENSITY STRENGTHENS THE
CHARACTER OF OUR COMMUNITIES.
THANK YOU CAN DO THIS FOR US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
GREG MATTHEWS TWELVE BROOKLYN
AVENUE.
NICE TO BE HERE.
FIRST TIME IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS
I SENT YOU AN EMAIL EARLIER
WITH A COUPLE OF THOUGHTS.
I WAS LISTENING INTO THE
MEETING ON MY WAY BACK FROM
DETROIT ON THE D TO A TWO AND I
HEARD SOME OF MY NEIGHBORS
SPEAKING UP.
I HEARD I LIVE IN LOWER BURNS
PARK.
I HEARD FOLKS FROM ALL OVER
BERN'S PARK AND OTHER PLACES
WHO RECOGNIZE OUR PRIVILEGE TO
LIVE IN THESE NEIGHBORHOODS AND
WANT TO EXTEND THAT PRIVILEGE
TO MORE PEOPLE BY ALLOWING MORE
HOUSING.
AND I JUST WANTED TO COME IN AT
THE LAST MINUTE HERE TO SAY I
AGREE WITH THAT SENTIMENT AND
SO I WANT TO SEE THIS LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT EQUALLY
APPLIED ACROSS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IN OUR ONE IN OUR TWO
ZONES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
I WISH YOUR WIFE CAN
COVER TWENTY EIGHT HAVING
HOMEPORT LOOK, I'M A CLIMATE
ACTIVIST AND A WRITER.
I DON'T HAVE A GRAND VISION FOR
THE CITY HOW WE SHOULD GO BUT
AS I UNDERSTAND IT TONIGHT
YOU'LL BE RESUMING YOUR PAGE BY
PAGE THIS SECTION OF THE PLAN
STARTING ON PAGE SEVENTY EIGHT
AROUND THERE.
SO I HAVE SOME SPECIFICS
SUGGESTIONS FOR WHAT THEY'RE
WORTH.
FIRST OF ALL AS I MENTIONED
LAST MEETING CHANGE ALL
REFERENCES FROM
CARBON REDUCTION TO
CARBON ELIMINATION.
YOU'LL FIND THEM ON PAGES
EIGHTY EIGHTY NINE NINETY ONE
IN NINETY THREE.
>> THAT'S TO OUTLINE THIS PLAN
WITH A LANGUAGE OF THE TWENTY
THIRTEEN SUSTAINABILITY
FRAMEWORK THAT IT'S REPLACING
BECAUSE CARBON REDUCTION IS
JUST SUCH A WEAK AMBITION AT
THIS POINT AND SO LET'S PUT
ELIMINATION IN THE PLAN AGAIN
IT'S JUST A WORD BUT I'M A
WRITER AND WORDS MATTER.
SECONDLY, THIS ONE REALLY IS
JUST A PET PEEVE.
I'D LIKE TO SCRUB THE PLAN
OF THE WORD RESILIENCE.
IT'S BECOME THE MEANINGLESS
JARGON OF SUSTAINABILITY
PROFESSIONALS.
>> THERE ARE SEVEN REFERENCES
TO RESILIENCE ON PAGE EIGHTY
FIVE ALONE THIS IS THE STARTED
AS AN ECOLOGICAL CONCEPT AND
SOMEHOW METASTASIZE TO THE
SUSTAINABILITY REALM AND HAS
LOST MOST OF ITS MEANING.
I THINK YOU'LL FIND THAT YOU
CAN GET RID OF IT AND BE MUCH
MORE DIRECT IN THE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THOSE
SECTIONS WHERE YOU FIND IT.
BUT AGAIN THIS IS MY OWN
PERSONAL THING MORE SERIOUSLY
NATURAL FEATURES THE DRAFT PLAN
ON PAGE EIGHTY STATES THAT
QUOTE MOST NATURAL FEATURES ARE
ALREADY PUBLICLY OWNED UNQUOTE
.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANY OF YOU
HEARD THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION DEBATE LAST THURSDAY
BUT COMMISSIONER CHRIS GRAHAM
COMMENTED ON THIS LAST THURSDAY
.
HE SAID IT'S FLAT OUT WRONG THE
MAJORITY OF NATURAL FEATURES IN
THE CITY ARE CONTAINED IN THE
OLD TREES ACROSS THE CITY,
MOSTLY IN RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY'RE CONTAINED IN THE NATIVE
FOREST FRAGMENTS THAT ARE NOT
IN OUR PARKS.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF GRAHAM IS
RIGHT BUT IF HE IS THAT SHOULD
BE CORRECTED ON NATURAL
FEATURES SECTION TEN POINT ONE
ON PAGE EIGHTY NINE.
YOU MAY WANT TO SKIP THAT
SECTION TONIGHT UNTIL THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION VOTES
ON THE RESOLUTION THAT IT'S
BEEN CONSIDERING FOR THE LAST
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
THAT RESOLUTION CALLS FOR AMONG
OTHER THINGS TO INCORPORATE AND
UPDATE THE NATURAL FEATURES
MASTER PLAN IN EFFECT AS
OF MARCH 20TH INTO THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN INCLUDING
SHORT AND LONG TERM GOALS
PROPOSED PARTIES, RESPONSIBLE
INDICATORS FOR SUCCESS AND TIME
FRAMES, ET CETERA.
RIGHT NOW THE PLAN WILL BE
REPLACING NATURAL FEATURES A
MASTER PLAN THIS RESOLUTION
UNDER CONSIDERATION WOULD
ACTUALLY INCORPORATE THAT
MASTER PLAN INTO THE KIND
OF PLAN INSTEAD OF REPLACING IT
SO THOSE MY SPECIFIC
SUGGESTIONS FOR WHAT REMAINS
OF CHAPTER FOUR TONIGHT AND ALL
I CAN SAY IS GOOD LUCK.
I DON'T ENVY YOU YOUR TASK.
I HOPE I DIDN'T MAKE IT HARDER.
THANK YOU, MR. BARBER.
I AM JAN STRIGHT.
I LIVE AT 12 18 AND IS IN A
VERY LOW SINGLE STORY BRICK
RANCH NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'M VERY SYMPATHETIC TO WANTING
MORE PEOPLE TO MOVE TO ANN
ARBOR.
I DON'T KNOW THAT MY HUSBAND
AND I WOULD HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
AFFORD HERE IF WE WERE JUST
MOVING HERE NOW HAD WE NOT
BOUGHT A HOUSE 30 YEARS AGO BUT
I ALSO THINK WE DO NEED TO
MAINTAIN THE INTEGRITY OF OUR
SINGLE FAMILY HOME
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT SPECIAL AND
IF WE START BUILDING OVER THEM
AND DEVELOPERS START COMING IN
OUTBIDDING PEOPLE FOR HOUSES,
PUTTING UP LARGE STRUCTURES, I
THINK IT'S GOING TO TAKE AWAY
FROM SOME THE SPECIALNESS
OF ANN ARBOR.
I DO HAVE ONE THOUGHT A LOT
OF PEOPLE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
ARE RETIRED AND IT'S TOO
EXPENSIVE FOR THEM TO MAKE A
LATERAL MOVE BECAUSE OF TAXES.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
BEEN TALKED ABOUT IN THE CITY
AT ALL.
THANK YOU.
>> ANYONE ELSE IN THE CHAMBER
BEFORE WE GO TO ZIMM
MANAGER
KELLY, THERE ARE CURRENTLY SIX
HAND RAISED PHONE NUMBER AND IN
THREE ZERO SIX YOU PERMISSION
TO ADDRESS UNNIKRISHNAN FOR
THREE MINUTES
.
OW, OW OW OW OW OW OW OW OW.
WE CAN HEAR YOU BUT THERE'S
NECO.
SORRY, CAN YOU GIVE THAT TO
YES.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES OK.
>> RIGHT THANK YOU.
SO I WRITE RIGHT ONE TIME I
WANTED KIND OF BEFORE FROM THE
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT OF LOOKING
FOR HOPE ENVIRONMENTAL
POLLUTION LIKE LEAF THOUGH I
DID ONE THING IN SUPPORT OF A
NATIONAL POETRY REVOLUTION AS
PRESENTED BY THE BIOCIDES
OF COMMITTEE OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
I LISTENED LAST WEEK AND THERE
WERE A LOT OF VERY THOUGHTFUL
COMMENTS INCLUDING ONE ABOUT
THE UNITED KINGDOM'S
ENVIRONMENT AT TWENTY TWENTY
ONE THAT MAKES BIODIVERSITY
TESTING MANDATORY FOR MOST
HOUSING AND INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT IN THE GULF REGION.
SO THIS HASN'T HAPPENED BUT
HOPEFULLY BETTER SAFE BEFORE
INCLUDING LONDON.
THAT MEANS THAT DEVELOPMENT
MUST RESULT IN MORE OR BETTER
QUALITY NATURAL HABITATS THAN
THERE WAS PRIOR TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AND THAT'S GOING TO
BRING UP THE EXAMPLE
OF SINGAPORE.
SINGAPORE IS A COUNTRY THAT
LOVE AND RESPECT FOR TREES AND
IS INCREASINGLY RESTORING TREES
IN NATURE AND HIGHLY URBAN
SETTINGS CREATING MUCH BEAUTY
AND THEY COULD HEAL AS WELL
SERVING THE DUAL PURPOSE
OF COST EFFECTIVE STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT.
THANKS FOR ACHIEVING THAT GOAL.
WORLD HERITAGE SITE THIS
IMPRESSIVE BEAUTY AND GARDEN
SINGAPORE EVEN MAINTAINS
PRIMARY RAINFALL WITHIN ITS
CITY LIMITS ANN ARBOR AND THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IN AP
SHOULD BE STUDYING THESE SORTS
OF EXAMPLES THROUGHOUT THEIR
OWN PLANNING PROCESSES
PRESERVATION AND INCORPORATION
OF GREEN SPACES AND URBAN
ENVIRONMENTS ESSENTIAL AND
HEALTHY AND ESPECIALLY
IMPORTANT CONSIDERATION
OF CLIMATE CHANGE THROUGH THE
DESERT HEAT AND STORMWATER AND
MITIGATE FLOODING AN ARRAY
OF GREEN SPACES MAKE THE CITY
MORE ATTRACTIVE AND APPEALING
AND PROVIDE PLACES FOR OUTDOOR
RECREATION AND OVERALL GREATER
PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING FOR
ITS CITIZENS NO MATTER YOUR
INCOME I'D LIKE TO BELIEVE THAT
METHODICAL AND THOUGHTFUL URBAN
PLANNING CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED
AND I HOPE THAT AN URBAN
DEVELOPMENT CAN BE MORE
COMMUNITY DRIVEN AS OPPOSED TO
DEVELOPER DRIVEN THAT OUR
ELECTED OFFICIALS HAVE TO
ADVOCATE FOR THE CONSTITUENTS
TO HAVE A LOVELY AND QUALITY
OUTCOME A REAL CITY OF THE
FUTURE.
I'D LOVE TO SEE A REQUIREMENT
THAT A PERCENTAGE OF CIVIL
ENGINEERING PROJECT BUILDINGS,
BRIDGES ETC. AN ENORMOUS
OPPORTUNITY APPLICATIONS SUCH
AS GARDENS AND PUBLIC ART AND
PARK SO THAT WE DON'T WIND UP
WITH A HODGEPODGE OF UGLY
BUILDINGS, CONCRETE AND ASPHALT
AND NO GREEN SPACE FOR EXAMPLE
THEY DO THIS IN DENVER WITH 10
PERCENT OF THEIR PROJECT BUDGET
BEAUTIFICATION TO ENHANCE THE
ESTHETIC AND VIBRANCY OF THE
CITY.
BUILDERS AND DEVELOPERS MAKE
MILLIONS A PERCENTAGE OF WHAT
SHOULD BE INVESTED BACK INTO
POSITIVELY ENHANCING THE
COMMUNITIES THAT THEIR
PROFITING FROM BY BEING
CONTRACTED SO IT MAKES MY FOCUS
IS JUST KEEPING THE BEAUTY
OF ANN ARBOR EVEN GOING THROUGH
THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS MARTINEK ALL
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION
.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
>> GREAT.
I THINK THAT WAS YES.
MY NAME IS MICHAEL MCCAUL.
>> I LIVE AT TWO SEVEN NINE
EIGHT COLONIE ROAD NEAR
BEARPARK AND I WANT TO SPEAK UP
IN FAVOR OF INCREASED DENSITY
FOR TWO REASONS WALKABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
FIRST, WALKABILITY.
SO I MOVED ANN ARBOR A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO AND BEFORE MOVING
HERE I LIVED IN VARIOUS CITIES
AROUND THE COUNTRY INCLUDING
DENVER, AUSTIN AND SAN
FRANCISCO.
SO I DON'T HAVE THE MORAL
AUTHORITY OF SOME OF THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS WHO WERE BORN
AND RAISED IN ANN ARBOR.
BUT I DO HAVE THE EXPERIENCE
OF WHAT IS POSSIBLE ELSEWHERE
THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT I LIVED
IN IN THESE CITIES WERE A
HIGHLY WALKABLE MIX OF SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES AND DENSER HOUSING
LIKE DUPLEXES COMPLEXES, SMALL
APARTMENTS, COFFEE SHOPS,
GROCERY STORES AND THAT WAS
EXACTLY WHERE THE CHARM
OF THESE PLACES CAME FROM.
THE FACT THAT THERE WAS THIS
INVIGORATING MIX OF HOUSING AND
STUFF TO DO.
SO NEXT AFFORDABILITY I AM
LUCKY ENOUGH TO OWN A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME BUT I KNOW THAT NOT
EVERYONE IS IN THIS POSITION.
AFFORDABILITY IS AN
INCREASINGLY DIRE ISSUE URBAN
AS IT IS IN DENVER, AUSTIN AND
SAN FRANCISCO.
AS OTHER COMMENTERS HAVE
MENTIONED, INCREASING HOUSING
SUPPLY, LOWER HOUSE AND COST
EVEN IF THE HOUSING THAT IS
BUILT IS NOT EXPLICITLY QUOTE
AFFORDABLE.
YOU'VE PERHAPS HEARD THE SAYING
KEEP SOME WEIRD MEANING.
KEEP AUSTIN BIZARRE AND ARTSY
AND FUN.
THAT ONLY HAPPENS IF THE
ARTISTS AND THE MUSICIANS AND
THE DREAMERS CAN AFFORD TO LIVE
THERE AND I HOPE THAT CAN BE
TRUE FOR ANOTHER TO WRAP UP,
I'VE DEVOTED MY CAREER TO
FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE
HOUSING ISSUE GIVES ME THE SAME
FEELING THAT WORKING ON CLIMATE
DOES NAMELY THAT WE HAVE THE
SEEMINGLY OVERWHELMING PROBLEM
AHEAD OF US AND SOLVING IT WILL
TAKE A LONG TIME AND SO WE
REALLY NEED TO START RIGHT NOW
.
ALLOWING MORE DENSITY IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WON'T
TRANSFORM EVERYTHING TOMORROW
BUT IF WE WANT AN AFFORDABLE
WALKABLE AND INCIDENTALLY
CLIMATE FRIENDLY COMMUNITY IN
30 YEARS WE NEED TO START
TODAY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS FARMER
ENDING IN 098.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION
.
>> OH YOU HAVE TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION PHONE
NUMBER 098 YES PLEASE GO AHEAD
.
YOU OK?
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS RICHARD JACKSON.
MY WIFE AND I LIVE ON LAND
STREET STREET HARBOR.
I'VE BEEN A HOMEOWNER HERE FOR
MANY YEARS.
WE RAISED OUR TWO KIDS HERE
RECENTLY.
I CAME ACROSS A POST ON THE
NEXT DOOR AFTER WE GOT IN THE
TOP WE HAD THE BLANDINGS PLAN.
I HAD HEARD OF IT PREVIOUSLY.
WE RECEIVED NO NOTIFICATION
THAT THIS IS ONGOING AND HOW I
UNDERSTAND IT SAID HE WOULD
LIKE TO ELIMINATE ZONING
RESTRICTIONS A NEIGHBORHOOD TO
ENABLE MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES
TO BE BEST KNOWN FOR THE
EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
THIS IS BEING PRESENTED AS THE
SOLUTION TO HIGH RENTAL COSTS
LOOKING AT THREE OR FOUR OUT
OF A BUILDING NEW AN EXISTING
OLDER NEIGHBOR WOULD DEFINITELY
DETRACT FROM THE CHARACTER
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
MANY PEOPLE ARE NEXT DOOR
TOSSING AROUND NUMBERS AND
STATISTICS TO DEMONSTRATE HOW
THAT WILL HELP BRING DOWN THE
CITY WITHOUT PRESENTING
VERIFYING THAT THIS SEEMS LIKE
A DEVELOPER DRIVEN PLAN THAT
WOULD CHANGE A WHOLE LOT.
PEOPLE HERE I SENT E-MAILS TO
MAJOR CITY COUNCIL REPS
REGARDING THIS PRIOR TO ONE
OF THEM RECENTLY I RECEIVED NO
RESPONSE FROM ARTICLES I READ.
IT SEEMS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL ARE ALL ON BOARD
WITH IT.
THEY'RE TRYING TO PUSH THIS
THROUGH UNDER THE RADAR AND IT
HAS BEEN A DESIRABLE PLACE TO
LIVE.
PERHAPS THE POINT WOULD MAKE IT
LESS DESIRABLE IN THE NEARBY
DROP RENTAL PLACE ON WHAT IS
THE POTENTIAL OBSTACLES TO
PLAN.
BUT IN MAKING HOMEOWNERS ARE
THE PRIMARY STAKEHOLDERS IN ALL
NOT THE DEVELOPERS HOMEOWNERS
THAT INVESTED HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF THEIR OWN
DOLLARS IN THEIR HOMES.
>> PEOPLE WANT A PLACE, THEY
ARE EDUCATED.
THEY WANT TO BACK TO RELAX AND
WATCH THE KIDS PLAY.
I DO NOT WANT DEVELOPERS
CHOPPING UP MY NEIGHBORHOOD
SERVICES WOULD ALSO BE FURTHER
TAXED.
THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM IS
ALREADY UNDER PRESSURE.
YOU KNOW PEOPLE SEEKING CARE
PARTICULARLY EMERGENCY CARE.
HE TRIED TO GO YOU HAVE BEEN
PROCEDURE AND ALMOST ANY GIVEN
DAY HE PAID YOUR RATE FOR A
VERY LONG TIME BACK IN THE CITY
WOULD BE MORE LIKE FINDING A
PARKING SPACE.
I HOPE THE CITY AND THE CLINIC
WILL RECEIVE THIS.
THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE MAJOR
CHANGES, MAKE SURE THEY ARE
REACHING.
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER MENTIONED
THE GREENBELT INITIATIVE THAT
DID SOME YEARS AGO.
YOU WANT TO GROW IN ORDER FOR
OUTWARD, NOT INWARD.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS PHONE NUMBER
AND IN THREE TO SIX YEAR
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
HELLO.
I'M KRACKER.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
WE CAN.
HI.
I LIVE AT FIVE EASTERN AND THEN
CALLING TODAY WITH SOME
CONCERNS ABOUT IMPEACHMENT.
I HAVE BEEN CONCERNED I'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING FOR QUITE A WHILE AND
I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
METHOD YOU USE TO GET DOCUMENT
ENGAGEMENT AND YOU'VE TALKED
ABOUT SURVEYS AND THE ONE
SURVEY THAT YOU HAVE LOOKED FOR
THE RESULTS OF THAT I THINK YOU
CITED STATISTIC OF FOUR
THOUSAND RESIDENTS EVEN
ENGAGED.
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT STATISTIC
IS IF YOU LOOK AT THE RESULTS
ONLY TWO THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
SIXTY SEVEN OF THESE ARE OUR
RESIDENTS.
SO THERE'S FIFTEEN PERCENT
OF THE PEOPLE SUBMITTED SURVEYS
DON'T LIVE IN AN THE OTHER
PROBLEM WITH THIS SURVEY IS
THERE'S NO CHECK FOR MULTIPLE
COMPLETIONS OF THE SURVEY SO
YOU CAN HAVE TWO THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED SIXTY SEVEN BUT SIX SIX
HUNDRED OF THEM HAVE SUBMITTED
DUPLICATE SURVEYS AND THE
REASON WHY THAT'S A REAL RISK
IS NONE OF THESE SURVEYS ARE
IDENTIFIED BY NAME.
IN CONTRAST, IF YOU WERE TO
LOOK AT THE GRAND RAPIDS MASTER
PLAN THAT WAS RECENTLY
COMPLETED, EVERYONE CONTRIBUTED
FEEDBACK TO THE MASTER PLAN IS
NAMED IN THE PLAN.
THERE'S QUITE A NUMBER NOW WE
DON'T HAVE ANY IDEA WHO
SUBMITTED WHO WHO WHO IS
INVOLVED AND EVEN THOSE WHO
BASICALLY ATTENDED ALL THE
DIFFERENT
WORKSHOPS WE DON'T
KNOW WHO WE DON'T KNOW IF THESE
ARE RESIDENTS OR NOT.
SO EVEN WITH THE STATISTICS
OF 2006 SEVEN RESIDENTS WHO
COMPLETED THE SURVEY, THERE ARE
106 THOUSAND RESIDENTS IN ANN
ARBOR AND IT'S A SERIOUS
QUESTION OF HOW MANY PEOPLE HOW
MANY RESIDENTS IN ANN ARBOR IN
THE DISTRICTS AFFECTED ACTUALLY
KNOW THAT THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT
GETTING RID OF SINGLE FAMILY.
YOU KNOW, DISTRICTS I SUGGESTED
A WHILE BACK THAT A POSTCARD WE
SENT OUT BASICALLY INDICATING
THAT THE ZONING WAS GOING TO BE
CHANGED AND THAT IN EXPLAINING
THE OPTIONS AND THE FACT THAT
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING WAS GOING
TO BE ELIMINATED.
BUT IN A RECENT FLIER TO MY
HOUSE NO POSTCARD TO THE
INTERNET TO EVERYONE I AM AWARE
OF A FLIER THAT WAS TRIED FOR A
FLIER THAT WAS RECENTLY SENT
OUT.
HOWEVER, IN THE DESCRIPTION
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THERE
WAS NO MENTION MADE OF THE FACT
THAT SINGLE SINGLE FAMILY
DISTRICTS WERE GOING TO BE
REPLACED.
>> THAT'S A HUGE PROBLEM.
MR. CLARK, YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS A GIRL IS
LUIS VASQUEZ PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
?
>> YES.
GOOD EVENING.
PLANNING COMMISSION LUIS
VASQUEZ NINE ZERO NINE PARDON
DRIVE AND UPPER LOWER TOWN.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND ALL
YOUR EFFORTS ONCE AGAIN, I JUST
WANTED TO SPEAK BRIEFLY ABOUT
ANN ARBOR RAISING A FAMILY
OF THREE YOUNG MEN.
MY OLDEST IS 35 YEARS OLD.
MY YOUNGEST IS THIRTY.
YES, WE RAISED THAT FAMILY ON
BROADWAY STREET AND ALSO
PONTIAC TRAIL.
NONE OF MY KIDS CAN AFFORD TO
BUY A HOUSE IN ANN ARBOR AND I
BELIEVE THIS IS DUE TO THE
CURRENT EXCLUSIONARY SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING WHICH I ENCOURAGE
YOU TO CHANGE.
PLEASE EXPAND THE TRANSITION
DISTRICTS PLEASE DO NOT
RESTRICT HEIGHTS.
PLEASE ALLOW FOR AS MUCH
HOUSING AS CAN BE BUILT ACROSS
THIS CITY.
LAST TIME I CALLED IN I SUGGEST
MADE A SUGGESTION ABOUT
WHEREVER THERE IS A BUS LINE
YOU KNOW WITHIN 50 TO 100 FEET
OF A BUS STOP THERE SHOULD BE
AN ALLOWANCE FOR FIVE TO TEN
STORY BUILDING.
I DON'T CARE WHAT NEIGHBORHOOD
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ANYWHERE
THERE IS A BUS LINE WE NEED TO
HAVE THE ABILITY TO BUILD
TALLER STATISTICALLY AND
STUDIES HAVE SHOWN THAT IN MANY
LOCATIONS AROUND THE COUNTRY
THAT WHERE YOU ASSOCIATE HIGHER
DENSITY WITH TRANSIT TRANSIT
STOPS THOSE ARE HIGHLY
SUCCESSFUL.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
PLEASE KEEP MOVING FORWARD.
I WOULD DISREGARD THOSE WHO
WERE ASKING FOR PEOPLE TO SIGN
A PETITION TO STOP OR SLOW DOWN
THE PROCESS.
PLEASE APPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN PROCESS GOING FORWARD AND
BUILD HIGHER, BUILD MORE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> TWO MORE HANDS RAISED.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS BRAD YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION?
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONERS BRAD FRITZ 30 30
LEXINGTON'S SECOND WORD.
LET ME FIRST THANK YOU FOR YOUR
SERVICE.
I'D SIT ON TWO DIFFERENT
NONPROFIT BOARDS AND I DO NOT
ENVY YOU YOUR JOB FOR A MOMENT.
WE JOKE A LOT THAT HEY THIS IS
WHY WE GET THE BIG BUCKS WHICH
OF COURSE WE'RE ALL UNPAID.
I THINK ALSO THOSE WHO SPEAK
THEIR OPINION, WHETHER IT
AGREES WITH MINE OR NOT, THIS
IS WHY WE CAN HAVE AN EFFECTIVE
LEADERSHIP BY HAVING ALL THE
VIEWPOINTS OUT THERE AND I WILL
TAKE ONE DIG AGAINST A VERY
SMALL NUMBER WHO MAKE AD
HOMINEM ATTACKS ON SOME OF US.
YOU ARE NOT WELCOME COME WITH
FACTS AND DATA AND GOOD
ARGUMENTS.
LET'S I WANT TO PAUSE THE PLAN
BECAUSE THE PLAN TO DO THREE
THINGS NO.
ONE, BETTER INPUT FROM ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTS AND I'M PLEASED
TO SEE THAT THIS APPEARS TO BE
IN PROGRESS.
EVEN YESTERDAY I DISCOVERED
SOME NEW PUBLIC INPUT ON THE
WEBPAGE FROM THE COMPLAINT IT
WAS NOT MENTIONED ANYWHERE.
I JUST SAW IT BY ACCIDENT AND
THE WORKSHOPS WOULD THANK YOU.
SECOND, BETTER RESEARCH OF HARD
OBJECTIVE DATA LIKE THE VERY
BASIC ASSUMPTION THAT TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WANT TO
MOVE IN IN ANN ARBOR.
THAT SPACE TO MY KNOWLEDGE ON
ONE ON SCIENTIFIC SURVEY THAT
ASKED NOTHING ABOUT PEOPLE'S
ABILITY TO DO SO OR THEIR
REASONS FOR NOT.
AND THIRD, OF COURSE WE WE
OF COURSE ANN ARBOR SPECIAL.
BUT THIS ISSUE IS A NATIONAL
ISSUE.
LET'S SEE WHAT OTHER PLACES,
PARTICULARLY OTHER UNIVERSITY
TOWNS ARE AFFORDABILITY THE
BEST EXPECTATION FOR MINOR
THING THE RESEARCH AND PERHAPS
THE BEST RESEARCH I'VE SEEN IS
FROM FREE MARKET 2013 PAPER
WHICH HAD BEEN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE PEOPLE.
THE BEST WE CAN EXPECT IS THAT
ABSENTING WILL SLOW THE RATE
OF PRICE GROWTH FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO THINK IT'S GOING TO
DECREASE PRICES, I'M SORRY TO
DISAPPOINT YOU.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THE RESEARCH
SHOWS SO THAT THAT'S OUR BEST
EXPECTATION AND OFTEN WE SEE UP
IT INCREASES PRICES WHICH AS A
HOMEOWNER MYSELF THAT'S GOING
TO BENEFIT ME PERSONALLY BUT IS
NOT GOING TO MAKE IT ANY EASIER
FOR ANYONE TO AFFORD COMING IN
.
SO LASTLY, THIS IS SINCE IT'S
SO UNCERTAIN LET'S NOT MAKE A
WHOLESALE CHANGE.
>> LET'S DO A SMALL SCALE TEST
BECAUSE THE ONE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHERE YOU THANK YOU FOR YOUR
COMMENTS YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED.
>> THANK YOU.
ONE MORE HAND RAISED THAT IS
ONE COLOR AND THEN FIVE THREE
FOR YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
WELL, GOOD JOB STALBERG CALLING
FROM ONE TO ZERO TO TRAVERSE
STREET IN THE HEART
OF LOWERTOWN.
I WANT TO THANK THE SPEAKERS
WHO SPOKEN SO FAR PARTICULARLY
IN THE ISSUES THAT I WANT TO
SPEAK ABOUT WANT TO ECHO THE
COMMENTS ABOUT THE NATURAL
FEATURES RESOLUTION I
PARTICIPATED IN THAT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
MEETING AND PLEASED THAT THE
RESOLUTION AND INCORPORATE THAT
INTO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THERE'S ALSO A COUPLE OF PEOPLE
WHO TALKED ABOUT THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT IN THE MAPS.
I SUPPORT WHAT THEY WERE SAYING
AND I WANT TO ADD TO THAT SOME
SPECIFIC DETAIL AND PEOPLE
SHOULD GO TO THE LIBRARY GAVINS
AND LOOK THE MAPS AND PUT A
NOTE DOWN THERE WHAT YOU SEE
WHAT I SAW AN AREA NEAR ME WELL
SOME AREAS THAT ARE ZONED OR
PLAN FOR THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT WHICH IS ONE UP BUT
NOT IN THE SINGLE FAMILY AND
OUR TWO WALK TOGETHER INTO THE
LOW RISE RESOLUTION DISTRICT IN
THE NEXT ONE UP WHICH THE
FORMER NUMBERS WE SAW WERE 80
FEET TALL OR REDUCED TO 55 IF
YOU'RE 50 FEET FROM THE LOW
RISE TO RESTRICT I KNOW THE
NUMBERS NOT ON THE PLAN AT THIS
MOMENT.
THAT'S THE LAST NUMBERS WE SAW
ASSUMING THOSE ARE GOING TO BE
THE NUMBERS OR SOMETHING
SIMILAR IF WE WERE TO PULL THIS
ROAD IN MY AREA WERE TRACKS
THAT SEPARATE PLYMOUTH ROAD FOR
SOME LOW APARTMENT, THE TWO
STOREY APARTMENTS YOU CAN'T
EVEN SEE FROM THIS VOTE AND
THEN THERE'S MORE MODEST HOUSES
ON SAFER ROAD AND TRAFFIC COURT
AND THEN YOU HAVE LIKELY
SCIENCE AND FROM THAT THAT
WHOLE BLOCK OF HOUSES AND
APARTMENTS ARE SLATED FOR THAT
TRANSITION DISTRICT WHICH MEANS
THERE COULD POSSIBLY BE EIGHTY
FOUR BUILDINGS ON AN ENTIRE
MULTI BLOCK AREA ACROSS FROM
THE SCIENCE CENTER WHAT'S STORY
EIGHTY FOUR BUILDING LOOK AT
BEEKMAN ON BROADWAY FOR
EXAMPLE.
THEY CAST OUT OF THE BOX AT
THERE'S ALSO AN AREA WHERE IT'S
LONG SHORTHOLD FOR WEST SIDE
LIGHT STREET SOUTH OF THE
FAIRVIEW CEMETERY AND SWIFT
STREET AND ALL OF THAT AGAIN
THE WAY IT'S SET UP NOW COULD
BE THAT MAXIMUM HEIGHT NOT TO
STEP DOWN BUT THE MAXIMIZERS
TRANSITION DISTRICT WHICH
TALKED ABOUT POSSIBLY 80 FEET
TALL AND THAT'S RIGHT IN THE
HEART OF A RESIDENTIAL AREA.
IT'S NOT ONLY THE KIND
OF TRANSIT CORRIDOR OR ARTERY,
IT'S NOT ARTERIAL
NOTHING.
AND SO IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE ANY
SINCE THE LAST THING I WANT TO
MENTION IS ABOUT THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS NOT THE
PROPOSAL IS NOT EQUITABLE RIGHT
NOW HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
RESTRICTIONS, CONDO
ASSOCIATIONS CAN RESTRICT
THINGS.
FOR EXAMPLE, ONE SAID NOT MORE
THAN ONE PRIVATE DWELLING
SHOULD BE ERECTED ON A SINGLE
LINE THAT'S COMMON IN A LOT
OF SUBDIVISIONS.
>> MOST SUBDIVISIONS IN THE
HARBOR ARE SIMILARLY
RESTRICTIVE.
SO WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE PASS
THE ZONING?
IT'S NOT LEGALLY ENFORCEABLE ON
THOSE GROUNDS BECAUSE THEIR
HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION LAPSED
.
I DIDN'T MEAN TO BE RIGHT FOR
ME I I TRIED TO SPEAK BUT YOU
GOT THERE FIRST.
WE DO HAVE ONE MORE HAND
RAISED.
MR. VICE CHAIR THAT IS SEEKING
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING QUESTION.
>> WE'RE GREAT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I'M CALLING ON BEHALF OF MY OWN
FAMILY THAT LIVES IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WELL AS DOZENS
OF OTHER NEIGHBORS THAT ARE
SLOWLY FINDING OUT ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN JUST IN THE
LAST FEW WEEKS AND ARE TRYING
TO GET CAUGHT UP TO SPEED ON
ALL OF THE DETAILED AND VERY
OVER ARCHING RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR THE CITY WE ARE AGAINST
WHOLESALE CHANGE TO ALLOW FOUR
STOREY COMPLEXES ACROSS ALL
SINGLE FAMILY ZONED AREAS TODAY
I THINK THERE'S A BIG
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TALKING
ABOUT A DUPLEX BEING BUILT IN
THE CURRENT SCALE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ALLOWING A
FOUR STORY APARTMENT BUILDINGS
TO BE BUILT WITHIN THE CURRENT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK THE PLAN IN GENERAL HAS
VERY NOBLE AIMS AND GOALS TO
BUILD MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WITHIN THE CITY.
I THINK IT'S LACKING THE
EVIDENCE THAT SOME WOULD
SUPPORT THESE REALLY
OVERARCHING MASS OF CHANGES TO
OUR CITY AND I WOULD ENCOURAGE
US TO GO AT A SLOWER PACE WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SUCH BIG
CHANGES TO BLOW THROUGH THE
ENTIRE CITY TO BE REALLY SURE
THAT THESE THINGS ARE ACTUALLY
GOING TO PRODUCE THE TYPES
OF RESULTS THAT WE WANT.
THANK YOU
.
THERE WAS ONE OTHER HAND THAT
TRICKLED IN WHILE OUR LAST
GUEST WAS SPEAKING.
TRACY, WINDBURN YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO DO US PLANNING
PERMISSION AND ONE OTHER HAND
JUST RAISED I THINK YOU YES.
I'M TRACY SWINBURNE.
I'M FROM 511 POTTER AVENUE AND
ALLMENDINGER PARK AND I ALSO
WANT TO SHARE THIS SENSE THAT
AS I SPEAK TO NEIGHBORS THERE
ARE LOTS OF NEIGHBORS WHO ARE
JUST HEARING ABOUT THIS.
I KNOW THAT YOU HAVE DONE LOTS
OF ENGAGEMENTS AS DISCUSSED BUT
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE DIDN'T
KNOW ABOUT IT PARTICULARLY IN
THE FALL WHEN THERE IS A LOT
GOING ON POLITICALLY.
SO I THINK THERE ARE LOTS
OF SMILES OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHO ARE JUST NOW GETTING UP TO
SPEED AND WOULD LIKE TO BE MORE
A PART OF THE PROCESS FROM OUR
PERSPECTIVE, FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE AND I'M IN THE PARK
WE ARE RIGHT ADJACENT TO A LOT
OF HIGH END STUDENT FOCUSED
HOUSING PLACES LIKE THE YARD
WHO WERE IN GREEN THESE KINDS
OF DEVELOPMENTS.
AND IT SEEMS THAT IF LEFT OPEN
TO DEVELOPERS TO CHOOSE WHERE
TO PLACE HOUSING THIS THEY WILL
DEVELOP MOST INTENSIVELY WHERE
IT IS MOST PROFITABLE AND WILL
BE LARGELY IN THESE AREAS
NEIGHBORING DOWNTOWN AND
LARGELY THE SAME KIND OF MOST
PROFITABLE STUDENT FOCUSED TYPE
OF HOUSING AND NOT A DIVERSITY
OF HOUSING SERVING THE KINDS
OF NEEDS THAT ARE DESCRIBED IN
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE OURS SEEM
LIKE WE WILL ONE BY ONE GET
PICKED OFF FOR DEVELOPMENT THAT
WILL BE THE LARGER FOUR STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING STUDENT
FOCUSED AND OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH CURRENTLY HAS REALLY
GREAT DIVERSITY AND WE HAVE
JUST ONE BLOCK ALONE.
WE HAVE APPS, TEACHERS, NURSES
,SOCIAL WORKERS.
WE WON'T BE A FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOOD ANYMORE.
HOW DOES THIS GET PICKED OFF
BLOCK BY BLOCK AND BECOME
LARGER APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND
THEN OTHER PEOPLE LEAVE AS WELL
SEEKING THE KIND OF FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WE CAME THERE
TO GET.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT.
WE'D LIKE I'D LIKE LOWER
DENSITY IN THESE AREAS NOT NOT
FULL USE THE LOTS NOT A VERY
DIFFERENT KIND OF HOUSING.
WE WANT TO HAVE SOMETHING
THAT'S MUCH MORE SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE HAVE AND FEEL LIKE IT
COULD BE IRREVERSIBLE IF THAT
WERE CHANGED OVER INTO A
STUDENT FOCUSED NEIGHBORHOOD,
IT'D BE REALLY HARD TO CHANGE
THAT BACK AND GET THE KIND
OF DIVERSE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT YOU HAVE NOW THAT COULD
REALLY SERVE MORE FAMILIES IN A
LESS INTENSIVE, LESS INTENSE
DENSE USE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS
.
I THINK OUR FINAL HENDRY'S IS
MOLLY YOU PERMISSION TO DRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI MY NAME IS MOLLY
MCMULLEN.
I LIVE IN A TWENTY GRANGER
BOWERBIRDS PARK AND I JUST WANT
TO REITERATE WHAT THE LAST
SPEAKER SAID.
I'VE JUST BEEN HEARING ABOUT
THIS IN THE PAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS.
I FEEL LIKE IT HAS BEEN
DISCUSSED ENOUGH.
WE HAVEN'T HAD ENOUGH
INFORMATION ABOUT IT.
IT IS A MASSIVE CHANGE TO THE
CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR AND I
REALLY FEEL LIKE IT SHOULD IT
DESERVES MORE ATTENTION TO MAKE
SUCH A WIDE REACHING PLAN
BECOME OPEN TO DEVELOPERS WHO
ARE IT'S JUST IT LOOKS WHEN I
READ IT LOOKS LIKE A GIFT TO
DEVELOPERS.
I THINK WE NEED TO PROTECT OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND FIRST OF ALL
WE NEED TO BE INFORMED SO I
WOULD APPRECIATE POSTPONING ANY
DECISIONS UNTIL THERE HAS BEEN
TIME FOR REGULAR MEETINGS, TOWN
SOMETHING SENT OUT TO EVERYONE
THAT PEOPLE KNOW ABOUT IT.
THANK YOU.
NO MORE HANDS RAISED AT THIS
TIME.
>> IT IS.
I'VE GOT A JOB AND I HAVE
SOMEONE IN THE CHAMBER SPEAK
BUT JUST WANTED TO WAIT IN CASE
SOMEONE RAISE THEIR HAND IS
YEAH.
I'M GOING TO RECOGNIZE YOU IN
JUST A MOMENT OK?
YOU CAN COME UP YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES.
THERE ARE THREE LIGHTS GREEN
YOU'RE GOOD YELLOW WRAP IT UP
RED YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED.
OK, THANK YOU ALL FOR SERVING
ON THE COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS ELIJAH SIX IVO
HIDDEN VALLEY CLUB DRIVE.
I APPRECIATE THE MOTION TOWARDS
MORE DENSITY MIXED USE ALL
OF THESE THINGS ARE REALLY
GREAT.
I THINK IN GENERAL THERE IS A
PSYCHOLOGICAL IMPULSE AGAINST
CHANGE BUT I DON'T THINK THAT
THAT IS I THINK THAT THERE'S
SOMETHING ALSO TO ACKNOWLEDGE
IN THE WAY THAT PEOPLE ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE OWNERSHIP
OF THE CITY WHICH IS SOMETHING
THAT I KIND OF SHARE A CONCERN
WITH BECAUSE I THINK AS MUCH AS
I WANT GREATER DENSITY AND A
LARGE PART OF THAT IS FOR THE
PLANNING AUTHORITY TO HELP WORK
WITH DEVELOPERS.
YOU CAN IMAGINE A CITY THAT IS
VERY DENSE BUT IS ALL OWNED BY
ONE PERSON THE MIGHT NOT BE
SOMETHING THAT'S SUPER
NEGOTIABLE AND I THINK THERE IS
KIND OF A CONCERN ABOUT AS THE
CITY IDENTIFIES THE OWNERSHIP
OF THE CITY BECOMING MORE AND
MORE CONSOLIDATED.
YOU KNOW, OXFORD IS A AND
MACKINLEY ARE SOME EXAMPLES
OF PEOPLE THAT HAVE OR
COMPANIES RATHER THAT HAVE A
LARGER OWNERSHIP OF THE CITY
THAN THE AVERAGE PERSON.
AND THEN MY SECOND CONCERN IS
IT'S BEEN MENTIONED I THINK IN
A PREVIOUS MEETING THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAD HAD
DEALS WHERE DEVELOPERS DID NOT
FOLLOW THROUGH WITH ALL
OF THEIR PROMISES NECESSARILY
AND THERE WAS NO SYSTEM
OF ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THAT AND
I DON'T KNOW IF I MISUNDERSTOOD
THAT BUT THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
I THINK ALSO NEEDS TO BE
ADDRESSED AND A LOT OF THESE
ESPECIALLY THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONS NOT LAW BUT IT'S A
STATEMENT INTENTION RIGHT.
WHAT WE INTEND TO BRING ABOUT
IN THE NEXT 20 YEARS FOR THE
CITY AND I THINK A BIG PART
OF THAT SHOULD BE EMPOWERING
THE PEOPLE AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IN THEIR
NEGOTIATIONS WITH DEVELOPERS SO
THAT WE'RE NOT DEVELOPING
THINGS AND THEN, YOU KNOW,
DEVELOPER PULLS OUT OR DOESN'T
DELIVER WHAT THEY SAID THEY
WERE GOING TO AND NOW THE CITY
HAS A PROJECT OF CLEAN UP OR
SOME KIND OF REHABILITATION
OF A LOT SO THAT IT'S
ATTRACTIVE TO A NEW DEVELOPER
NOT TO SAY THAT HAPPENED A LOT
BUT I KNOW THERE WERE SOME
COMPLAINTS ABOUT GEORGETOWN AND
THEN THE LAST THING WITH THIRTY
SECONDS ON THE CLOCK, I THINK
THAT A BIG PART OF THIS IS
GOING TO BE ADVOCACY FOR
RENTERS AND TENANTS AS MORE AND
MORE OF THE POPULATION WILL
INEVITABLY BECOME RENTERS
TENANTS.
WE NEED SOME BILL OF RIGHTS,
SOME WAY TO ADVOCATE FOR
OURSELVES AGAINST LANDLORDS
BECAUSE THERE'S A VERY BIG
POWER IMBALANCE BETWEEN US AND
THE OWNERS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NO MORE CALLERS ON LINE.
WE'RE OK, THAT'S FOR SURE.
YES.
WOULD YOU MIND BRIEFLY
REITERATED THE UPCOMING
ENGAGEMENT AFTER TABBY'S
ACTUALLY WAS GOING TO ASK YOU
TO DO THAT SO THAT THE PUBLIC
KNEW AND THEN I WANTED TO GIVE
THE COMMISSIONERS AN
OPPORTUNITY IF YOU WANT IT TO
RESPOND TO ANYTHING FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT BEFORE WE GO ON TO
OTHER BUSINESS.
AND SO YOU COULD TAKE A MINUTE
OR TWO IF YOU WANTED TO BUT I
WILL START WITH STAFF.
>> OK, WE COMPLETED OUR FIRST
ENGAGEMENT SESSION THAT WAS ON
APRIL 24TH, THE WESTGATE
LIBRARY.
OUR NEXT SESSION IS TOMORROW
APRIL APRIL 30TH FROM THREE TO
SEVEN PM MALLETS CREEK LIBRARY
AND THEN MAY 7TH AT THE TRAVER
WOOD LIBRARY FROM THREE TO
SEVEN.
THANK YOU PLANNER BENNETT.
ALL RIGHT.
CALCIUM NO DISH THANK YOU CHAIR
WHICH SO I WANT TO FIRST OF ALL
ADDRESS ALL OF THE PEOPLE WHO
TOLD US THAT THEY ARE JUST
TUNING INTO THE PROCESS AND
THEY WANT TO BE PART OF IT AND
I WANT TO SAY GREAT WELCOME.
WE'VE SCHEDULED LOTS OF EXTRA
MEETINGS FOR YOU AND WE ARE
HEARING WHAT YOU ARE SAYING.
>> I'D LIKE TO BRIEFLY IN THE
HOPES THAT PERHAPS IS LISTENING
NOTE TO ADAM L WHO INTRODUCED
HIMSELF AS LIVING ON BROOKLYN
AVENUE THAT HE ASKED YOU ASKED
THAT WE ZONE FOR GREATER
DENSITY DOWNTOWN AND ALONG
TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT THIS PLAN
PROPOSES TO DO.
I WANT TO CLARIFY THAT YES,
THIS PLAN PROPOSES TO GET RID
OF SINGLE FAMILY ZONING
DISTRICTS BUT TO REPLACE THEM
WITH A ZONE CALLED MID RISE
RESIDENTIAL IN WHICH IT WILL BE
POSSIBLE TO BUILD MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING WHERE IT IS CURRENTLY
LEGAL TO DO THAT.
BUT THERE WILL BE LIMITS ON THE
SIZE OF THAT HOUSING WHICH
MEANS THAT IT WILL NOT BE
POSSIBLE TO CREATE HOWEVER MANY
UNITS YOU WANT TO BECAUSE WE
WILL REGULATE HEIGHT AT A LEVEL
THAT IS PERHAPS JUST FIVE TO
TEN FEET HIGHER THAN IT IS
ALREADY LEGAL TO BUILD IN THOSE
DISTRICTS THERE WILL BE SOME
WAY TO LIMIT THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF THOSE BUILDINGS AND THERE
WILL BE SOME FORM BASED
REGULATIONS.
>> SO IT IS TRUE THAT WE WILL
NOT REGULATE BY UNITS LIKELY WE
ARE NOT LIKELY TO REGULATE BY
UNITS.
THESE DECISIONS ARE MADE YET
BUT THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT
UNLIMITED NUMBER OF UNITS WILL
BE POSSIBLE.
THE GREENBELT HAS BEEN
MENTIONED SEVERAL TIMES.
YES, WE REMEMBER THE GREENBELT.
THE GREENBELT WAS AN
ECOLOGICALLY SOUND POLICY, A
DECISION NOT TO SPRAWL SPRAWL
FLATTENS TREES, CONSUMES
AGRICULTURAL LAND, DISPLACES
FARMERS AND LEAVES US WITH LESS
TO EAT NOT TO SPRAWL IS TO
COMMIT TO GROWING WITHIN THE
CITY LIMITS TO GROW WITHIN THE
CITY LIMITS IS TO GROW UPWARD,
NOT OUTWARD.
SEVERAL CALLERS ASK THAT WE
PROVIDE HARD DATA FOR OUR
ASSUMPTION THAT THERE IS DEMAND
FOR HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR THERE
IS A THREE POINT FIVE RENTAL
VACANCY RATE IN ANN ARBOR AND A
ZERO VACANCY RATE FOR SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSING OR YEAH AND
ACCORDING TO THE MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION OF PLANNERS HOUSE
FORMATION IS ON THE RISE
CONSISTENTLY AND STEEPLY.
THAT MEANS THAT PEOPLE ARE
BREAKING OFF AND LOOKING TO
FORM THEIR OWN HOUSEHOLDS BUT
THEY HAVE NO PLACE TO GO NOW
WE'VE HEARD THE BEST THING WE
CAN EXPECT FROM THIS PLAN IS
THAT INCREASED SUPPLY WILL SLOW
THE INCREASE IN RENTS.
THAT IS TRUE IN THE SHORT RUN
IT IS ACTUALLY A MEASURE
OF AFFORDABILITY IN THE SHORT
RUN IN THE LONG TERM THE
EVIDENCE FROM DECADES AND IT IS
HARD EVIDENCE IS THAT A MAJOR
SOURCE OF HOUSING FOR
HOUSEHOLDS EARNING AT 50
PERCENT OF THE MEDIAN AND BELOW
IS MARKET RATE HOUSING THAT HAS
AGED INTO AFFORDABILITY OVER
TIME SINCE THE 1970S IN THE
UNITED STATES WE HAVE RELIED ON
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT TO PROVIDE
ABOUT THREE QUARTERS AS MUCH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS WE GET
THROUGH THE FEDERAL LOW INCOME
TAX CREDIT PROGRAM.
THE CITATIONS FOR THIS HARD
FACT ARE AMASSED TWENTY
NINETEEN BUYERS IN PARKS TWENTY
TWENTY AND STACEY AT ALL TWENTY
TWENTY THREE WHICH INCLUDES
FREE MARK.
I'D LIKE TO ASK STAFF TO SPEAK
TO THE QUESTION OF HOW WE ARE
LOOKING AT THE SURVEY AND
WEIGHING IT IN OUR DECISION
MAKING GIVEN THAT IT IS A
REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE DID YOU
WANT THEM TO DO THAT NOW OR WAS
THAT SOMETHING YOU WANTED TO
SEE LATER?
IT'S UP TO GREAT.
UH, WE'LL LET YOU RUMINATE ON
THAT WHILE I CHECK IN WITH THE
OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
>> DID ANYONE ELSE WANT TO MAKE
A COMMENT TO POST PUBLIC
COMMENTS?
LOOKS LIKE COMMISSIONER ADAMS
DOES.
SURE.
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WE'VE
HEARD QUITE A BIT.
UM, WE HEARD TONIGHT WE'VE
HEARD IT IN EVERY PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT SESSION.
IS THAT WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING TO
DO?
WILL CAUSE THE SHORT TERM
DRAMATIC SHORT TERM DRAMATIC
CHANGES TO NEIGHBORHOODS.
I WANT TO DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN
DIFFERENCES OVER VALUE AND
POLICIES IN THE DOCUMENT WHICH
I THINK ARE LEGITIMATE.
I DON'T WANT TO PAPER THEM OVER
VERSUS THE SPEED WHICH CHANGES
WILL TAKE PLACE WHICH I THINK
UNDER ANY SCENARIO ARE
INCREMENTAL EVEN IF THE PLAN
MOVES TO A RELATIVELY RADICAL
DIRECTION.
WE'VE HEARD FROM EXPERTS,
LANDLORDS, ACADEMICS HAVE
APPEARED IN FRONT OF US TO TALK
ABOUT HOW FAST THESE CHANGES
TEND TO OCCUR.
THEY ARE NOT GLACIAL BUT IF YOU
LOOK AT OTHER CITIES THAT HAVE
DONE THIS WORK, I THINK THOSE
EXPERIENCES BROADLY SUPPORT THE
PROPOSITION THAT EVEN CITIES
THAT HAVE ENGAGED IN FAIRLY
RADICAL TRANSFORMATIONS
OF THEIR LAND USE LAWS WHICH
WE'RE NOT DOING HERE HAVE
EXPERIENCED GENERALLY
INCREMENTAL CHANGES FOR THE
FOLKS WHO ARE LOOKING FOR SORT
OF A SILVER BULLET FROM THIS
PROCESS TO IMPROVE
AFFORDABILITY.
I THINK THAT'S CAUSE FOR
CONCERN.
BUT FOR THE FOLKS WHO ARE
WORRIED ABOUT WHAT WE'RE WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE
CAUSING SHORT TERM RADICAL
CHANGES TO SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS, I THINK THERE'S
NOT AN EXAMPLE THAT I CAN THINK
OF FROM ANY OF THE COMMUNITIES
THAT HAVE DONE THIS WORK WHERE
THAT'S OCCURRED.
SO MY VIEW OF IT HAPPENING HERE
IS THAT IT WON'T AGAIN EVEN IF
WE DISAGREE STRONGLY ABOUT THE
POLICIES THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT, I DON'T THINK THAT
THAT'S IN THE OFFING AND I JUST
WANTED TO SAY THAT BECAUSE
WE'VE HEARD IT OVER AND OVER
AND OVER AND I UNDERSTAND WHY
PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED.
I THINK WE'RE LISTENING TO IT
BUT I WANTED TO RESPOND TO IT
BRIEFLY.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
SO I WASN'T IN THIS ANYTHING
BUT SINCE PEOPLE INVOKED MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AS A PLACE THEY
WOULDN'T WANT TO LIVE BECAUSE
OF APARTMENT AND LACK
OF FAMILIES AND NO ABILITY TO
LIVE IN A SINGLE FAMILY HOME, I
WOULD LIKE TO JUST SAY THAT I
LIVE IN OUR FORESE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE HAVE LOTS OF APARTMENTS
AROUND ME, SOME NEW AND THE NEW
ONES ARE MORE EXPENSIVE.
THERE ARE SEVERAL OLDER ONES
THAT WERE BUILT IN BETWEEN THE
50S IN THE 70S AND THOSE ARE
HALF THE COST AND I'M LOOKING
APARTMENTS DOTCOM RIGHT NOW AND
LITERALLY HALF THE COST FOR
ACTUALLY A SLIGHTLY BIGGER
APARTMENT AND THAT'S WHERE A
LOT OF THE AFFORDABILITY COMES
IN IS THE BUILDINGS THAT WE
BUILT A LONG TIME AGO.
BUT WE DIDN'T BUILD A LOT
OF BUILDINGS IN THE INTERVENING
YEARS BETWEEN THE 70S AND THE
2000S AND SO WE DON'T WE'RE NOT
SEEING THAT BUT WE DO SEE IT IN
THE BUILDINGS THAT WERE THERE
BEFORE.
SO HILL WHICH MY PARENTS
ACTUALLY LIVED IN AFTER THEY
GOT MARRIED, IT WAS WRITTEN UP
IN THE PAPER THAT THAT'S WHERE
THEY LIVED NOT SOMETHING WE
WOULD SEE NOW BUT THEY MET IN A
BOARDING HOUSE ON HILL STREET
AND WHEN THEY GOT MARRIED THEY
MOVED TO LIVE AT HILL.
THAT HILL IS NOW AN AFFORDABLE
PLACE TO LIVE AND IT'S LOVELY
AND IF YOU DON'T KNOW IT'S
THERE IT'S LIKE THREE
APARTMENTS IN THE MIDDLE OF A
NEIGHBORHOOD AND CHILDREN LIVE
THERE.
FAMILIES LIVE THERE.
I DO THINK IT'S WE NEED TO BE
CAREFUL THAT WE THINK THAT THAT
WE EQUATE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
WITH FAMILIES AND APARTMENTS
WITH NON FAMILIES FAMILIES ARE
MANY DIFFERENT COMBINATIONS
OF PEOPLE AND MANY TWO PARENT
FAMILIES WITH TWO AND A HALF
KIDS LIVE IN APARTMENTS AND I
JUST I REALLY WANT TO REITERATE
THAT PEOPLE CAN LIVE IN ANY
LIVING SITUATION.
FAMILIES CAN LIVE IN ANY
SITUATION.
FAMILIES CAN BE A LOT
OF DIFFERENT COMBINATIONS
OF PEOPLE AND WE SHOULDN'T TALK
ABOUT PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN
APARTMENTS AS SOMETHING OTHER
THAN A FAMILY AND WE SHOULDN'T
TALK ABOUT SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES
AS BEING THE ONLY CORRECT WAY
FOR FAMILIES TO LIVE OR THE THE
DESIRED PLACE FOR FAMILIES TO
LIVE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO
LIVE IN A SINGLE FAMILY HOME SO
I JUST WANT TO PUT THAT OUT
THERE BECAUSE I THINK WE HEAR A
LOT OF DENIGRATION OF HOUSING
THAT IS NOT SINGLE FAMILY AND I
THINK THAT THAT IS VERY
DESTRUCTIVE TO A COMMUNITY AND
JUST ABSOLUTELY NOT TRUE.
AND SO I THINK WE JUST I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT BECAUSE WE ARE
ALL A COMMUNITY AND WE ALL LIVE
HERE NO MATTER WHAT KIND
OF HOUSING OR LACK OF HOUSING
WE LIVE IN AND AND THAT IS YOU
THAT'S THAT'S THE ANN ARBOR
THAT WE ACTUALLY LIVE IN AND WE
WILL CONTINUE TO LIVE IN AND I
THINK WE NEED TO BE CAREFUL HOW
WE SPEAK ABOUT OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE
.
I JUST HAD UM MARY WHOSE NAME
LAST NAME I DID NOT WRITE DOWN
SO I'M SORRY MARY IF YOU
ACTUALLY WATCH THIS LATER YOU
TALK ABOUT AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND DEFINITIONS AND WE VERY
ADDRESS THIS LAST WEEK TO TRY
TO UPDATE OUR DEFINITIONS TO
ATTAINABLE OR INCOME, RESTRICT
IT SO THAT WE DON'T JUST USE A
BLANKET LABEL FOR THAT.
I DON'T THINK WE'VE YET HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT GENTLE AND
GENTLE MEANS BUT I THINK UM
SORT OF WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH WAS GETTING AT IN TERMS
OF FORM BASE GITTEL COULD TAKE
ON A LOT OF DIFFERENT
STRUCTURES AND SIZES AND
TOPOLOGIES WITHIN A
NEIGHBORHOOD AND SO I IMAGINE
WE MIGHT TAKE THAT UP TODAY IN
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER.
WHAT TO MAKE A POST PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> I DO WANT TO NOTE FOR THE
PUBLIC THAT WE ARE ABSOLUTELY
LISTENING.
UH, IF YOU LISTENED TO OUR FIVE
AND A HALF HOUR OR WATCHED OUR
FAB FIVE AND A HALF HOUR ALMOST
SIX HOUR MEETING LAST WEEK,
YOU'LL NOTE THAT A LOT OF THE
DEBATES THAT YOU HAD BROUGHT TO
THE PUBLIC COMMENT WERE
REPRESENTED BY THE
COMMISSIONERS AT THE TABLE AND
THERE WAS A HEALTHY BACK AND
FORTH ABOUT HOW WE COULD
ADDRESS SOME OF THE COMMENTS
THAT WE ARE HEARING.
WE ARE ALSO THE STAFF HAS
INDICATED TRYING TO MAKE SURE
THAT THERE ARE ADDITIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE PUBLIC TO
COMMENT ON THE DRAFT PLAN.
AND IN TERMS OF THE PROCESS
SOMEONE ASKED WHAT IS HAPPENING
.
SO STAFF RIGHT NOW IS
COLLECTING FEEDBACK FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION BECAUSE AS
A BODY WE REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT
IN PUBLIC AND SO YOU ARE PRIVY
TO OUR CONVERSATIONS AND THEY
ARE COLLECTING OUR NOTES AND
OUR FEEDBACK FOR THE
CONSULTANTS THAT WHO ARE
DRAFTING THIS PLAN.
WE WILL GET AN UPDATED DRAFT
ONCE WE CONCLUDE OUR INITIAL
REVIEW AND THEN PLAN OUR BUT IT
WILL TELL US WHAT HAPPENS AFTER
THAT AND THEN IF WE ACCEPTED
OUR DRAFT IT DIDN'T FORWARD.
IT'S ON TO CITY COUNCIL AND
COUNCIL GETS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
REVIEW IT.
I IMAGINE THEY WILL HAVE PUBLIC
HEARINGS AS WELL AND THEY WILL
VOTE ON IT.
SO THEY WILL PROBABLY HAVE A
FIRST AND A SECOND READING IF
THEY FOLLOW THEIR NORMAL
PROCEDURES AND THEN IF THEY
APPROVE THE PLAN IT THEN GOES
INTO A COMMUNITY WIDE REVIEW
PROCESS THAT'S APPROXIMATELY
SIXTY THREE DAYS WHERE IT IS
DISTRIBUTED ACROSS OUR
IMMEDIATE AREA AND OUR COUNTY
AND SO THAT WOULD INCLUDE
TOWNSHIPS AS WELL AS COUNTY
LEVEL GOVERNMENT AND THEN WATCH
THAT FEEDBACK ALL COMES BACK
AND ASSUMING NO ADDITIONAL
CHANGES IT WILL BE ACCEPTED FOR
ADOPTION.
PLEASE CORRECT ME OR CONFIRM OR
DENY.
>> I MEAN YOU YOU ARE THE
MASTER PLANNER HERE WITH US SO
DO CORRECT ME IF I GOT
SOMETHING WRONG THAT IS LARGELY
CORRECT.
WE ARE GOING THROUGH OUR FIRST
ROUND OF EDITS NOW.
WE HOPE TO BE DONE WITH THIS
ROUND THE MIDDLE OF MAY IS
WE'LL GO BACK TO THE CONSULTANT
WHO WILL BRING YOU BACK A
VERSION IN JUNE TO REVIEW AGAIN
THEN IN AUGUST.
WELL AT YOUR JULY MEETING I'M
DOING THIS OFF THE CUFF RIGHT
NOW BUT IN YOUR JULY MEETING I
BELIEVE THAT'S WHERE YOU
RECOMMEND FORWARDING IT TO
COUNCIL THEN COUNCIL.
WE'LL SEE IT IN AUGUST AND
THAT'S JUST THEM APPROVING THE
SIXTY THREE DAY REVIEW PERIOD
THAT'S NOT APPROVING A PLAN.
IT WILL GO INTO A TWO MONTH
REVIEW PERIOD AND THEN IT WILL
GO BACK TO PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR A PUBLIC HEARING IN
OCTOBER AND THEN IT IS
SCHEDULED TO GO TO COUNCIL IN
NOVEMBER FOR THEIR PUBLIC
HEARING.
SO WE STILL HAVE SEVERAL MONTHS
LEFT FOR THOSE WHO FEEL LIKE
THEY'VE NOT BEEN INCLUDED,
PLEASE CONTINUE TO GIVE PUBLIC
COMMENT, COME TO OUR ENGAGEMENT
SESSIONS.
WE ARE STILL COLLECTING
FEEDBACK.
>> THIS PLAN IS NOT YET
APPROVED.
GREAT MANAGER KELLY, DID YOU
WANT TO ADDRESS COUNCIL MEMBER
DISHES QUESTION OR WOULD YOU
LIKE TO MOVE THAT FORWARD TO
ANOTHER TIME?
I PREFER TO LET MANAGER LENAR
CONSIDER HOW TO RESPOND TO
THOSE HE'S CLOSER TO THIS
PROCESS AND MAYBE CONSIDER IT
WITH MISS BENNET AND IT'S
PERFECT BECAUSE HE'S NOT HERE
SO WE CAN ASSIGN WORK TO I
WON'T BE HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
BUT LET US TAKE A FIVE MINUTE
RECESS SO THAT WE MAY AVAIL
OURSELVES THE FACILITIES THAT
WE NEED
FROM THE
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL BRING US BACK TO ORDER
AND MOVE US TO AGENDA NUMBER
SEVEN, THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW OF CHAPTERS FOUR AND
FIVE AND WE WILL HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION BY SENIOR PLANNER
MICHELLE BENNET.
GOOD EVENING.
HOPEFULLY YOU ALL BROUGHT YOUR
PACKETS FROM LAST WEEK BECAUSE
WE ARE CONTINUING WITH CHAPTER
FOUR.
YOU HAVE A SEPARATE PACKET IN
FRONT OF YOU OF JUST THE EDITS
FOR CHAPTER FIVE.
THAT IS A MUCH SHORTER CHAPTER.
SO NOT ALL OF YOU SUBMITTED BUT
THOSE ARE AVAILABLE FOR OUR
DISCUSSION.
SO I WOULD REQUEST JUST WE HAVE
A LOT OF MATERIAL TO GET
THROUGH THAT WE CONSIDER
CHANGES AT A HIGHER LEVEL THAT
WE'RE THINKING ABOUT THINGS WE
CANNOT LIVE WITH AND
REMEMBERING THAT THIS IS OUR
FIRST PASS THROUGH AND THAT WE
WANT TO GET TO CHAPTER FIVE AS
WELL BECAUSE THERE'S GOING TO
BE A LOT OF MEATY ISSUES THERE
THAT I THINK WE NEED TO
ADDRESS.
>> OK, SO THANK FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION AND SENIOR PLANNER
BENNET WHO HAS ASKED US TO CALL
HER MICHELLE FOR THE PURPOSE
OF THIS CONVERSATION.
SO WE WILL ACQUIESCE TO YOUR
REQUESTS AND IT HAS WORKED FOR
THE LAST THREE MEETINGS FOR US
TO EFFECTIVELY JUST MUTE AND
SPEAK UP.
I WILL TRY TO MAKE EYE CONTACT
IN CASE SOMEONE IS WAITING TO
DEFER TO SOMEONE ELSE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE YOU.
BUT OUTSIDE OF THAT YOU HEAD ON
MUTE AND BEGIN YOUR COMMENTS
AND WE'LL START WITH
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THANK YOU.
I JUST HAVE A WELL I MEAN I BUT
I SPECIFICALLY HAVE A QUESTION
ABOUT THE PROCESS AND I AGREE
WITH YOUR APPROACH TONIGHT AND
I'M ALSO CURIOUS ABOUT WHEN WE
GET THE NEXT DRAFT BACK WHAT
THE FEEDBACK PROCESS FROM US IS
GOING TO LOOK LIKE.
I IMAGINE WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO
FOUR WEEKS AT SIX HOUR MEETINGS
TO TALK THROUGH WHERE YOU I
NEED DETAILS BUT I'M HOPING
THAT WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE
HAVING YEAH.
CONVERSATIONS.
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
IF I'M PERFECTLY HONEST I
HAVEN'T THOUGHT TO THE SECOND
ROUND BUT I THINK THIS IS THE
HEAVIER PUSH AND I'M HOPING
THAT WE ARE ADDRESSING ALL THE
LARGER ISSUES AND THAT THE
SECOND ROUND WILL BE MORE OF A
REFINEMENT AND IT MAY REQUIRE
THAT YOU HAVE WEEKLY MEETINGS
BUT WE CAN DETERMINE AS A
COMMISSION MAYBE BASED ON HOW
FAR OFF THE MARK YOU THINK WE
ARE ON THE SECOND ROUND.
OK, THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO IF WE COULD RETURN TO OUR
PACKET FROM LAST WEEK PAGE
THIRTEEN, WOULD IS THAT A GOOD
PLACE OF TWELVE?
>> SORRY.
>> YES, I THINK IT HAD TO PASS
WELL YEAH I THINK IT'S PAGE
TWELVE BECAUSE I'VE GOT YOU ON
THE VERY FIRST PAGE
OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES
ON PAGE SEVENTY SIX.
>> OK, GREAT.
>> SO YES STARTING WITH PAGE
TWELVE OF OUR PACKET OF NOTES
PAGE SEVENTY SIX SO WHY DON'T
WE START THERE TO SEE WHAT
FEEDBACK WE HAVE AS WE TRY TO
MOVE THROUGH THE END OF CHAPTER
.
YES OK I'LL START I MY MAIN
THOUGHT ON THIS SPREAD WAS
REORDER THE GOALS.
I'M NOT SURE IF THESE GOALS
WERE LIKE ANY PARTICULAR ORDER
BUT FELT LIKE IT WAS IN LIKE A
STRANGE ORDER TO ME I THOUGHT
THE STREET AND TRANSPARENT I
KNOW WE'RE NOT THESE AREN'T
LIKE PRIORITIES NECESSARILY BUT
LIKE I THOUGHT THAT THE STREET
AND TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM GOAL
IS GOAL NINE SHOULD BE THE
FIRST ONE AND LIKE THE
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE MOVE DOWN.
I JUST I MEAN I WASN'T SURE IF
THERE WAS A SPECIFIC REASON
THEY WERE ORDERED THAT WAY OR
NOT OR IF WE CAN REORDER THEM
THEY CAN BE REORDERED.
WHAT WOULD BE YOUR BASIS FOR
HAVING THAT FIRST?
HAVING TRANSPORTATION BECAUSE
IT'S AN INFRASTRUCTURE CHAPTER
AND I FELT LIKE STREET AND
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS ARE LIKE
REALLY CRITICAL COMPONENTS
OF AN INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WE'VE
BEEN DISCUSSING A LOT HERE.
WHAT WAS MY SECOND I THINK
TWELVE I WOULD MOVE TO BEAGLE
NINE AND THEN I DIDN'T REALLY
REORDER THE OTHER THREE I DON'T
KNOW I GUESS BECAUSE IT WAS AN
INFRASTRUCTURE CHAPTER.
>> THAT'S FINE.
I'M HAPPY TO MOVE THOSE BACK
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THERE IS
THERE IN PRIORITY ORDER.
YEAH, IT'S PROBABLY JUST BASED
ON HOW THEY'RE DISCUSSED I
WOULD IMAGINE REORDER GOALS TO
HAVE INFRASTRUCTURE FIRST IS
WHAT I'M HEARING.
OK, UM THERE ARE OTHER COMMENTS
ON THIS FIRST SPREAD IF ANYONE
WANTS TO BRING THEM UP.
SO AGAIN I GUESS I'M NOT
PLANNING TO GO THROUGH EVERY
SINGLE I'M GOING TO LOOK
THROUGH HERE AND PULL OUT ONES
THAT I WOULD LIKE SOME GUIDANCE
ON.
>> UM, CAN I MOVE TO THE NEXT
SPREAD OR DOES ANYONE HAVE
SOMETHING DYING TO SAY?
>> SO UM PAGE SEVENTY EIGHT
REMOVE THE PHRASE ALIGNING
DEVELOPMENT WITH TRANSPORT AND
AGAIN I DIDN'T ASSIGN NAMES TO
THIS SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK UP OR EVEN IF YOU DIDN'T
AND YOU AGREE WITH THIS PLEASE
LET ME KNOW I GUESS MY QUESTION
IS I THINK WHERE THIS IS COMING
FROM IS THAT WE WANT
DEVELOPMENT EVERYWHERE.
UM BUT I I THINK THAT
DEVELOPMENT ALONG
TRANSPORTATION LINES IS A IS A
BASIC BEST PRACTICE OF PLANNING
SO I WOULD SUPPORT LEAVING IT
THERE BUT IF THERE'S A
DIFFERENT RATIONALE FOR THAT ON
PAGE SEVENTY EIGHT I'M OPEN TO
HEARING IT.
I'M GETTING THERE.
SORRY.
YEAH YEAH.
I THINK FROM MY POINT OF VIEW I
THINK YOU UNDERSTOOD WHAT MY
CONCERN WAS WAS BY PRIORITIZING
ALONG TRANSPORTATION IT CAN BE
INFERRED THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
ISN'T EVERYWHERE.
SO IF THERE IS A WAY AND I
TRUST YOU TO CAPTURE THIS TO
ENSURE THAT IT'S NOT
EXCLUSIONARY WHAT IF IT WAS
ALIGNING FOR HIGHER DENSITY
DEVELOPMENT WITH TRANSPORTATION
?
SO AGAIN, JUST PUTTING MYSELF
OUT I WANT HIGHER DENSITY
EVERYWHERE BUT I UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING SO I DON'T
HAVE AN OBJECTION TO THAT.
>> OK, AND THIS CAME FROM THE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT, RIGHT?
THIS IS WHAT WE'VE HEARD
SECTION CORRECT.
>> OK, SO IF I AND HIGHER
DENSITY THE COMMISSION OK WITH
THAT YOU CAN PROBABLY ADDRESS
IT EVEN BETTER MAYBE THE
HIGHEST OK.
OH YES YES THANK YOU.
THAT'S OUR INTENDING YEAH BUT
NOT TO BE CONFUSED WITH THE
DOWNTOWN LIKE AREAS WHICH WILL
BE THE HIGHEST BUT I THINK THAT
YOU KNOW THE IDEA OK UM THERE'S
ANOTHER COMMENT HERE ABOUT PAGE
ON PAGE SEVENTEEN ABOUT THE
OBJECTIVES.
I THINK WE HAVE ALL AGREED JUST
TO REITERATE YES.
WE KIND OF INCLUDED MORE INTO
THE STRATEGIES UM
I THINK I
ADDRESSED LAST TIME THIS LARGE
SCALE STRIKE THROUGH
STRIKETHROUGH THROUGH BUT IF
YOU ALREADY HAVE IT I'M GOOD
WITH THAT.
>> I DIDN'T HAVE TO STRIKE
THROUGH IT.
I HAD THAT I AM STILL TALKING
TO DR. MINCY STULTZ ABOUT THIS
AND WE'LL PROBABLY DEFER TO HOW
SHE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THIS
WRITTEN AND THEN CAN RELAY THAT
BACK TO YOU.
AS YOU KNOW, STAFF IS ALSO
CURRENTLY REVIEWING THIS SO
I'VE GIVEN THEM UNTIL MAY 5TH
SO THAT I WILL HAVE TIME TO
COMPILE THEIR EDITS AND I PLAN
TO BRING STAFF EDITS AND THEIR
THOUGHTS TO YOU ALL FOR OUR
FINAL SESSION.
AND SO I THINK THAT MIGHT BE A
BETTER TIME TO ADDRESS THAT.
>> IT IS ALSO COME UP WITH
HIGHTS AS PEOPLE HAVE BROUGHT
UP THEIR CONCERN ABOUT HEIGHTS
IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
POTENTIALLY BLOCKING ROOFTOPS.
AND SO MISSY AND I ARE ON DR.
STILTS AND I ARE ALSO TALKING
ABOUT THAT.
BUT COULD I ASK A QUESTION
ABOUT THAT?
YES.
AND I'M NOT SURE IF THIS IS THE
RIGHT TIME BUT WE HAVE HEARD A
NUMBER OF PEOPLE EXPRESS
CONCERN.
ALL HAVE SPENT A LOT OF MONEY
ON MY SOLAR AND HERE'S THIS NEW
BUILDING.
IT'S BLOCKING IT AND I'M NOT
UNSYMPATHETIC TO THAT BECAUSE I
HAVE SOLAR PANELS IN OUR GARAGE
AND WOULD BUY ORDERS THEN BUY
THE RIGHTS TO THE WATER NOT
LEGITIMATELY, YOU KNOW.
I MEAN I THIS IN YOUR CLASS
SORRY SORRY SORRY I INTERRUPTED
THAT WAS WRONG.
IN ANCIENT DAYS PEOPLE WORRIED
ABOUT ACCESS TO LIGHT AND SUN
AND THAT'S KIND OF AN OLD
FASHIONED THING BUT WHEN YOU'RE
INVESTING MONEY TO HARVEST
SOLAR I'M A LITTLE BIT MORE
SYMPATHETIC TO ACTUALLY WHEN
YOU SPENT TWENTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS ON A SOLAR ARRAY.
YEAH, IT'S A LITTLE BIT FLIP TO
SAY YEAH TOO BAD.
WELL I WONDER IF THERE'S SOME
IT'S NOT INCONCEIVABLE TO ME
THAT IF SOMEBODY IS BUILDING A
LARGE PROJECT WITH SOME SOLAR
MAYBE THEY COULD MOVE THE SOLAR
PANELS ONTO THE TOP OF THE
BUILDING OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
THERE MIGHT BE CREATIVE WAYS TO
THINK ABOUT GETTING THOSE THOSE
KINDS OF IMPACTS WHAT SO WE CAN
PUNT ON THIS ONE BUT I CAN THAT
WOULD PROBABLY WORK IN AN ICU
THE WAY THAT UTILITY LAWS ARE
IN THE CURRENT STATE FOR THAT
IT HAS TO BE YOU CAN'T MOVE IT
ACROSS PROPERTY LINES AND SO
BUT THAT'S SOMETHING THAT IF
YOU WERE IN CHARGE OF THE
UTILITY YOU CAN CHANGE THAT
RULE AND SO THAT'S ONE OF THE
THAT'S ONE OF THE TRICKS.
AND JUST FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH
LIKE I I HAVE I'M WORKING WITH
SOME FACULTY ON CAMPUS TO TO
TRY TO DO SOME MODELING ABOUT
HOW BIG OF A DEAL THIS IS IN
TERMS OF SHADING.
SO I'M OK LIKE I'M MEETING WITH
MISSY NEXT WEEK.
>> THAT'S WHAT SHE HAD
MENTIONED TO ME IS I'LL BE
DOING SOME RESEARCH ON THAT.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT IT'S A LITTLE
BIT INCONGRUENT TO BE
ENCOURAGING EVERYBODY IN THE
BROTHERHOOD TO BE PUT ON SOLAR
AND SAYING BUT IF SOMEONE GOES
NEXT TO YOU TOO BAD.
SO WE SHOULD AT LEAST IN THE
PLAN BE ACKNOWLEDGING WE NEED
TO FIND SOME WAY TO ADDRESS
THAT CONGRUENCY AND IF
SOMEONE'S GOING TO SPEND A LOT
OF MONEY INVESTING IN SOLAR, WE
NEED TO HELP FIGURE OUT HOW TO
MAKE IT WORK AND AND NOT JUST
SAY YOU'RE THE YOU'RE AT THE
LOS WHO ARE THE IS YEAH.
WHO WHO HAS THE RIGHTS AND WHO
HAS TO BUY THE RIGHT FROM THE
RIGHT LIKE THIS IS EASEMENTS
VERSUS KIND OF AN ORDINANCE.
I MEAN THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE SHOULD WE SHOULD JUST
UNDERSTAND TOO AND ALSO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE CHANGE IN
HEIGHT IS RIGHT NOW IF YOUR
NEIGHBOR BUILDS TO THE CURRENT
HEIGHT LIMIT.
RIGHT LIKE IT'S I WE SHOULDN'T
BE CONSIDERING A A BLANK
PROPERTY OR JUST KIND OF WHAT
YOUR NEIGHBOR HAPPENS TO HAVE
CURRENTLY.
I THINK WHAT WE SHOULD REALLY
BE CONSIDERING IS LIKE WHAT THE
MAX HEIGHT NOW THAT YOUR
NEIGHBOR IS ALLOWED TO BUILD
AND ALSO JUST FOR WHAT IT'S
WORTH, TREES ARE A BIGGER
PROBLEM THAN BUILDINGS ARE
GOING TO BE.
AND SO ACTUALLY WE'RE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT TREE.
WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT RECOVER
BECAUSE THIS IS A TREE TOWN AND
THAT IS GOING TO BE A IT'S A
BIGGER TRICK FOR SOLAR AND I
THINK IT'S GOING TO BE A
TRICKIER THING FOR US TO JUST
ADDRESS.
SO I'M ACTUALLY NOT SUGGESTING
THAT WE SOLVE THE PROBLEM IN
THE PLAN.
I'M SUGGESTING THAT IN THE PLAN
WE ACKNOWLEDGE OUR PROBLEMS
HERE THAT WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO RESOLVE.
OK, YEAH, THAT'S A THAT'S A
GOOD OBSERVATION.
YES.
GOOD GREAT SPACE FOR THOSE WHO
ARE VALUES AND HOW THEY ARE
GOING TO PRESENT THEMSELVES AS
TRADE OFFS AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
RIGHT.
AND SO WE HAVE AFFORDABILITY.
WE HAVE SUSTAINABILITY.
WELL WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE WANT
TO BUILD TALLER BUILDINGS TO
HAVE MORE AFFORDABLE UNITS BUT
THEN IT MIGHT GO AGAINST SOME
OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
OF HAVING SOLAR PANEL?
I THINK THAT'S THAT'S A PERFECT
EXAMPLE OF HOW WE HAVE TO TALK
ABOUT ALL OF THESE AS TRADEOFFS
.
>> AND SO COULD YOU TAKE A NOTE
FOR THE I THINK THE POINT THAT
I HEARD THAT WAS REALLY GOOD
WAS DTT THE UTILITY PROVIDER
HAS LIMITATIONS CURRENTLY THAT
THE CITIES SEE YOU POTENTIALLY
HAVE AND SO THERE WOULD BE WAYS
FOR US TO BOTH DENSIFY THROUGH
THAT ALSO ACHIEVE THE SAME
SUSTAINABILITY OF THOSE WITH
RENEWABLE ENERGY BECAUSE THE
SIU HAS WOULD HAVE NEW EASEMENT
POWERS.
>> YEAH SO AGAIN I DON'T THINK
WE NEED TO SOLVE IT IN THE PLAN
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THERE ARE CHALLENGES HERE AND
WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THEM AND
COME UP WITH CREATIVE WAYS TO
GET TO A MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL
RESULT AND NOT JUST ANNOUNCE
WELL IF YOU HAD SOLAR AND SO ON
BUT NEXT YOU LOST IT.
TOO BAD I THINK THAT'S NOT A
GOOD TO APPROACH.
SURE COMMISSIONER RATHER BE I'D
ALSO LIKE IT SORT OF BECAUSE I
AM IN THAT POSITION AH WE LOST
A TREE AND NOW SUDDENLY HAVE
THE ABILITY TO PUT SO WELL
BECAUSE BEFORE WE DID BECAUSE
WE HAD A BIG TREE THERE AND
IT'S TAKING THEM A LOT OF TIME
TO FIGURE IT OUT BECAUSE ALL
THE PREVIOUS HUNDRED YEARS
OF OUR HOUSE HAD SO OR HAD THE
TREE SO BUT AND I AGREE WITH WE
SHOULDN'T JUST SAY YOU KNOW
TOUGH BUT I ALSO THINK THAT WE
NEED I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S A
WAY OF BEING ALSO REALISTIC
THAT PEOPLE PROBABLY DON'T NEED
TO WORRY ABOUT THEIR SOLAR IF
THERE'S A THIRTY FIVE FOOT
BUILDING NEXT TO THEM BECAUSE
NOW THAT I USED TO THINK THAT
BUT NOW THAT I LIVE NEAR 35
FOOT BUILDINGS OR 40 FOOT
BUILDINGS OR THE SUN DOESN'T
LIKE WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO GET
SOLAR IT DOESN'T ACTUALLY BLOCK
VERY MUCH AND I MEAN DEPENDING
BUT THAT'S DEFINITELY GOING TO
DEPEND ON YOUR TIME ORIENTATION
TIME OF YEAR AND THE ANGLE AND
BUT SO I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS
RIGHT AND WHERE THE SOLAR IS SO
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S SOME
WAY WE CAN BOTH INCLUDE THAT.
BUT ALSO NOT PANIC.
PEOPLE SAY WITH ASSUMING THAT
EVERY TWO OR THREE STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING IS GOING TO
SHADE SOLAR BECAUSE THAT'S
THAT'S NOT REALISTIC EITHER.
>> AND I THINK IT'S REALLY HARD
WHEN YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT A
THREE STOREY BUILDING LOOKS
LIKE IN YOUR HEAD OR IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> I THINK IT'S EASY TO ASSUME
IT'S LIKE A TEN STOREY
BUILDING.
YEAH, ALL RIGHT.
>> I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
AND WELCOME MR. LEONARD.
WE'RE HAPPY TO HAVE YOU AT THE
TABLE.
>> THANK YOU.
BACK TO YOU PLANNER.
EXCUSE MICHELLE, CAN WE GO TO
PAGE THIRTEEN INFRASTRUCTURE?
YES, WE CAN AT THE TOP OF THAT
PAGE I JUST WANTED TO ADDRESS
THIS.
IT SAYS DO WE HAVE TARGETS
ABOUT WHERE RESILIENCY HUB
SHOULD GO?
HOW MANY PEOPLE PER I LOOKED AT
THE EIGHT I LOOKED AT THE
RESILIENCE PAGE, OUR WEB PAGE
AND THEIR GOAL IS ONE PER WARD
FOR NOW.
SO TO ALIGN WITH THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION, I THINK WE COULD
ADD THAT DETAIL IF THAT'S
HELPFUL.
>> OK, AND THEN COULD YOU JUST
NOTE MR. GARBER'S
RECOMMENDATION THAT WE WRITE
THE WORD EVERYWHERE IT'S USED?
IT'S NINE TIMES HE SAID I'M NOT
SAYING YOU DO IT.
I'M JUST SAYING TECHNOLOGY.
YES, THANK YOU.
AND IF WE DO INCLUDE IT THAT IN
ADVISORY WHAT RESILIENCY HAVE
IS YES.
>> JUST RESILIENCE IN GENERAL
IF WE'RE GOING TO SAY IT DOES
IT MEAN DIFFERENT THINGS IN
DIFFERENT PLACES LIKE WHAT DO
WE MEAN BY WHAT'S SOCIAL
RESILIENCE, WHAT'S PHYSICAL
RESILIENCE ETC ARE COMMISSIONER
WHICH WERE YOU REFERRING TO MR.
CARTER'S COMMENTS ABOUT
CARBON REDUCTION TO KAMAMOTO?
>> HE TALKED ABOUT RESILIENCE
BECAUSE IT COMES FROM THE
ECOLOGICAL YEAH.
AND IT'S BECOME A MEANINGLESS
PHRASE THAT SUSTAINABILITY.
SO I WAS JUST IN THE SPIRIT
OF RECEIVING PUBLIC COMMENT AND
PASSING PUBLIC COMMENT ALONG.
THAT'S WHAT I WAS DOING.
YES.
THANK ALL THE PUBLIC COMMENTS
ARE RECORDED SO WE WILL HAVE A
RECORD OF THAT AND WE CAN TALK
TO US ABOUT THAT.
YEAH.
AND I THINK HIS SPECIFIC
COMMENT WAS TO CHANGE
CARBON REDUCTION TO
CARBON ELIMINATION, CORRECT.
SO WHERE THAT MAKES SENSE TO
THE CONSULTANTS I DON'T HAVE A
CARBON STAKE IN THAT
CONVERSATION.
>> WE CAN'T WE CAN'T FULLY
ELIMINATE CARBON LIKE WE HAVE.
IT CAN BE EMBODIED IN THE IN
THE BUILT INFRASTRUCTURE.
I FORGET I'M JUST PASSING I
GUESS IT'S HOW I THINK I KNOW
I'VE NOT READ THE SUSTAINABLE
80 ZERO PLAN.
I KNOW ALL OF THE TERMS LIKE IN
GREAT DETAIL.
I FELT LIKE THAT HERE I FELT
LIKE WHAT HE WAS GETTING WAS
SAYING CARBON REDUCTION IS LIKE
KIND OF COUNTER TO WHAT ZERO
SENSE AS LONG AS THEY'RE
ALIGNED AND MISSY THINKS THAT
THEY'RE ALIGNED THIS LANGUAGE
IN A ZERO LIKE I THINK I'M THE
I THINK HE'S SAYING THAT'S NOT
GOING FAR ENOUGH.
YES, THAT IS RIGHT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT'S WHAT IT SAYS BUT
MAYBE THAT'S NOT TRUE.
YEAH.
AND HE WANTED US TO WAIT UNTIL
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
OF FINISH THEIR RESOLUTION BUT
I THINK WE COULD JUST BRING
THAT FORWARD WHEN IT'S
AVAILABLE TO YOU.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE NEED TO
THE WORD THAT I OFTEN HEAR DR.
STULTS USES DECARBONIZATION
JUST DOESN'T IMPLY ELIMINATION
OF ALL CARBON BECAUSE MYSELF
ALSO HAS TO BE OF THE ABOUT HOW
WE THINK ABOUT RIGHT.
YES.
WE ARE BODIES.
YES WE ARE CARBON BEINGS.
OK, OK.
I HAVE THAT NOTE THEN WE'LL
LOOK AT THE TERMINOLOGY THAT WE
USE.
UM, PROBABLY WE'LL GO WITH
DECARBONIZATION THAT SEEMS THE
MOST NEUTRAL.
>> I CONCUR SO THAT THIS
INFRASTRUCTURE PIECES HERE UM
AGAIN MY READ ON SOME OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE FROM THE COUNCIL
WORK SESSION IS THERE ARE TEAMS
WITHIN THE CITY THAT ARE
WORKING TOWARDS ENSURING THAT
THE INFRASTRUCTURE CAN SUPPORT
THE DENSITY THAT THE CITY AIMS
TO ACHIEVE AND SO I THINK A
CALLER COMMENTED NOT TO HAVE
THE INFRASTRUCTURE LEAD WHAT WE
DO BUT HAVE THE INFRASTRUCTURE
FOLLOW HOW WE DETER AND HOW
WE'RE GOING TO GET OF THE CITY.
>> YES, OK, SO WE SO WE MOVED
ON TO THIS HEADER RIGHT WHERE
IT SAYS THAT'S WHERE I AM OK?
I MIGHT NOT BE THERE QUITE YET
.
>> OH NO.
LET US PAUSE IT AND CATCH
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE SO
I'M UNDER THE HEADING
INFRASTRUCTURE STARTING WITH
EIGHT PAGE EIGHTY TWO AND
EIGHTY TWO.
>> WHERE ARE YOU RIGHT I'M ON
PAGE EIGHTY TWO THE THIRD
BULLET.
>> OK GREAT WHY DON'T WE GO
AHEAD AND HAVE YOU TALK ABOUT
THAT.
SO THAT'S JUST MY COMMENT WHERE
IT HAS DUE IN PART TO THE
STUDENT POPULATION SOME AREAS
OF THE CITY.
FIFTY PERCENT OR MORE OF THE
HOUSEHOLDS DO NOT HAVE A CAR
AND I DON'T I DON'T SEE ANY
REASON WHY WE SHOULD SAY DUE IN
PART TO THE STUDENT POPULATION
BECAUSE THERE ARE LOTS OF OTHER
PEOPLE IN LOTS OF AREAS THAT
DON'T HAVE CARS FOR LOTS
OF REASONS.
YEAH, CALLING INCLUDING AND MY
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD OK,
I HAVE THAT NOTE THEN TO REMOVE
FIRST CLASS.
THANK YOU.
IN REFERENCE TO SORRY CAN YOU
HOLD ON FOR A SECOND MICHELLE
ONE OK YOU GUYS ARE TALKING
AWAY I'M STILL BUT WE'RE NOT 79
.
OH WE HAVE REALLY MOVED AHEAD
OF THAT.
I'M STRUGGLING A LITTLE BIT
WITH THE WAY THIS IS FOR I MEAN
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS LAST TIME
WHERE THE PLANE PRESENTS.
HERE'S WHAT WE HEARD FROM ALL
THE RESIDENTS AND THEN IT
PRESENTS THE RATIONALE WHICH IS
I TAKE TO BE HERE'S OUR KIND
OF CONSIDERED PROFESSIONAL
OPINION OF WHAT WE REALLY OUGHT
TO WORRY ABOUT.
SO YOU JUST WANT BETTER
ALIGNMENT?
WELL, FOR THOSE I GET THE
BENEFIT REITERATING WHAT WE
HEARD FROM FOLKS AND WHAT THEIR
CONCERNS ARE AND WE HAVE HEARD
PEOPLE MAKE COMMENTS THAT
THEY'RE VERY CONCERNED THAT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IS FAILING AND
THAT IF WE HAD MORE DEVELOPMENT
IT'S GOING TO ACCELERATE THOSE
FAILURES AND THAT'S
NOT AN
UNREASONABLE CONCERN BECAUSE
THE INFRASTRUCTURE IS FAILING
THAT A LOT OF IT IS BEYOND
ITS
DESIGN LIFETIME.
WE JUST FINISHED THE CITY JUST
FINISHED A MAJOR PIPE REHAB
PROJECT AT THE END OF MY STREET
I TOOK A ONE TOOK A WHILE IT
WAS PRETTY AMAZING TO WATCH BUT
I THINK IT'S A CASE THAT HAPPY
NEW DEVELOPMENT TAKING PLACE
ACTUALLY CREATES THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GO IN AND FIX
THE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT NEEDS
TO GET FIXED AND HAVING MORE
PEOPLE IN THE CITY HELPS SPREAD
THE COST THAT OUT INSTEAD
OF FOCUSING ON CURRENT THE
CURRENT RESIDENTS AND I'M
AFRAID THAT KIND OF LOGIC GETS
LOST SO AND PEOPLE MIGHT HONE
IN ON SEE THERE'S A CONCERN WE
DON'T HAVE THE INFRASTRUCTURE
TO DEAL WITH IT SO I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW THAT WE WANT TO HAVE
LIKE A POINT BY POINT
REFUTATION OF THINGS THAT MAYBE
GOOD CONCERNS.
BUT AS THE HERE'S MY REQUEST AS
THE STAFF IS GOING THROUGH TO
MAKE THEIR COMMENTS, COULD YOU
ASK THEM TO SPEAK TO THIS IDEA
THAT HAVING NEW DEVELOPMENT
MIGHT CREATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PROVIDE INFRASTRUCTURE
UPGRADES?
WE NEED ANYWAY AND TO DO IT
EFFICIENTLY IF THAT'S A REALLY
TRUE ASSERTION TO MAKE AND TO
MAKE SURE THAT CONCEPT IS
GETTING ADDRESSED ADEQUATELY IN
THEIR COMMENTS?
THAT WAS MY REQUEST.
OK, I MIGHT I MIGHT TURN TO
YOU, BRETT, BECAUSE THERE'S I
MENTION A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE, THEY HAVE STARTED THEIR
STUDIES AFTER SO WE ARE STILL
WAITING I THINK VERY SOON WE
ARE GOING TO KNOW A LOT MORE
DETAILS ABOUT WHAT KIND
OF CONSTRAINTS WE DO HAVE.
I THINK THERE COULD BE MAPS AND
PROJECTIONS ABOUT HOW
INFRASTRUCTURE MIGHT LIMIT SOME
OF OUR VISION.
WE CAN CONTINUE ON WITH OUR
VISION BUT THERE ARE GOING TO
BE SOME LIMITS.
ALONG WITH THAT THOUGH, THERE'S
SOME LEGAL GRAY AREAS RIGHT
ABOUT LIKE HOW PEOPLE CAN HOW
THE NEW DEVELOPMENT CAN BE
FUNDED WHICH I'M GOING TO LET
YOU TALK TO BECAUSE I THINK
THIS IS GETTING AT THIS IS
GETTING AT WHAT YOU MIGHT BE
TALKING.
I'M NOT SUGGESTING THAT ALL THE
NEW YOU KNOW, I'M NOT TALKING
ABOUT IMPACT FEES.
I'M TALKING A BIT MORE
GENERICALLY.
HAVING MORE OF A POPULATION
MEANS THERE'S MORE FOLKS TO
HELP COVER THE COST.
YES.
INFRASTRUCTURE.
OH YEAH.
SO THIS IS MORE ODDLY JUST MORE
BROADLY.
BUT THE POINT IS THAT THERE'S A
LOT OF INFRASTRUCTURE THAT'S
GOING TO HAVE TO GET REPLACED.
YES.
NO MATTER WHAT BECAUSE IT'S A
LOT OF IT'S BEYOND ITS DESIGN
LIFETIME.
THE FACT THAT NEW DEVELOPMENT
IS COMING IN MIGHT AFFECT THE
TIMING OF WHEN THAT HAPPENS.
BUT I DON'T THINK WE WANT TO
SAY BECAUSE IT'S OLD AND IT'S
FAILING WE SHOULDN'T KNOW ANY
MORE DEVELOPMENT WILL STOP AND
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT POINT
DOESN'T GET LOST IN THE
RATIONALE THAT'S PROVIDED AND I
CAN GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE
OF THAT.
SO THE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S GOING
ON ACROSS THE STREET FROM OUR
CHURCH HAS RESULTED IN ALL
OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE BEING
UPGRADED.
SO WE WERE EFFECTIVELY AT THE
END OF A DIRTY LINE IS HOW I
WOULD DESCRIBE IT FROM DETI.
SO IF THE WIND BLEW WE LOST
POWER WILL NOW BECAUSE OF THE
TWO NEW DEVELOPMENTS ARE ALL
OF OUR ELECTRICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT UPDATED THE
ROAD GOT UPDATED THE WATER
MAINS GOT UPDATED AND THAT'S
BECAUSE THERE'S BOTH AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THAT'S COMING IN AND
MARKET RATE HOUSING.
SO IT'S EXACTLY TO YOUR POINT
THAT BECAUSE NEW DEVELOPMENT IS
COMING IN, THIS INFRASTRUCTURE
IS IMPROVING AND THE WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD NOT JUST OUR SITE
BENEFITS FROM IT AND THAT'S
THOSE PROFESSOR LEVINE MADE THE
COMMENT THE INFRASTRUCTURE
DRIVE THE PLAN, LET THE PLAN
DRIVE THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
AND THAT WAS MY QUOTE PAGE
EIGHTY TWO SO WE COULD JUMP
RIGHT BACK TO THAT I THINK FROM
WHAT COMMISSIONER GORDON JUST
SAID.
SO I THINK THAT'S HOW IT WILL
GO.
I THINK OUR VISION WILL DRIVE
INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATES.
>> I WOULD JUST ADD THAT THANK
YOU MANAGER FOR LEADING THE
MEETING.
HE'S GETTING EVERYBODY WE
TALKED TO KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO
TALK TO SO JUST WE ARE REALLY
FORTUNATE THAT A LOT OF THIS
INTEREST DEEP DOVE
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT IS
HAPPENING CONCURRENTLY TO THE
PLAN.
BUT I DO I I DO JUST WANT TO BE
TRANSPARENT AND UPFRONT THAT WE
HAVE LIMITATIONS BEYOND THE
SORT OF EXAMPLES THAT
COMMISSIONER JORDAN WAS TALKING
ABOUT ON A LOCAL SCALE OR
COMMISSIONER WHICH WAS TALKING
ABOUT ON A LOCAL SCALE.
WE HAVE SOME INFRASTRUCTURE
LIMITATIONS THAT I THINK WILL
BE IDENTIFIED THAT WILL
POTENTIALLY LIMIT GROWTH IN THE
CITY UNLESS WE INVEST AND
RESOLVE IT OR BY GEOGRAPHY.
SO LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES TO DO
THAT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK
THAT WE SHOULD BE MINDFUL OF IN
THE PLAN IS JUST MAKING SURE
THAT WE'RE BEING TRANSPARENT,
HONEST ABOUT CALIBRATING OUR
IMPLEMENTATION AND PHASING, IF
YOU WILL, OF THAT DEVELOPMENT
SO THAT WE'RE BEING MINDFUL
OF THAT RIGHT.
WE DON'T OUR GOAL I AGREE OUR
GOAL SHOULD NOT BE RESTRICTED
BY INFRASTRUCTURE.
HOWEVER, OUR GOAL HAS TO BE
IMPLEMENTED IN CONCERT WITH THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT'S AVAILABLE
AND SO WE HAVE TO BE REALLY
CAREFUL AND TRANSPARENT AND
THOUGHTFUL ABOUT THE STEPS WE
TAKE TO REALIZE THAT VISION
WHERE AND WHEN.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
CAN I SAY SOMETHING VERY QUICK
WHICH IS THAT ON PAGE 106
THERE'S A REALLY GOOD
EXPRESSION OF THAT.
>> OH WE COULD JUMP ALL THE WAY
TO ONE.
I'LL JUST READ IT BECAUSE IT
MAY WANT TO BE STATED IN THE
INFRASTRUCTURE SECTION.
IT SAYS SOME INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS MAY BE PHASED IN
OVER TIME TO ACCOMMODATE
GROWING DEMANDS WHILE IN OTHER
CASES UP FRONT INVESTMENT MAY
BE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT THE
ENVISIONED GROWTH.
THAT FEELS COMPLETELY HONEST
AND IT'S NOT SAYING WHAT SHOULD
DRIVE WHAT OR SOMETHING SHOULD
STOP SOMETHING ELSE.
IT'S JUST SAYING THERE ARE
VARYING CONDITIONS.
>> I THINK IT'S ALLUDING TO THE
THE IP BREAKS THAT WILL COME
NEXT YEAR.
WE'LL HAVE TO PRIORITIZE
PROJECTS TO ACCOMMODATE THE THE
GROWTH.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN WE GO BACK TO PAGE EIGHTY
TWO?
YES, I THINK WE'VE ANSWERED
THOSE QUESTIONS UNDER DIFFERENT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> SO TOO IF EVERYONE FEELS
LIKE THAT WE CAN MOVE ON UNLESS
YOU HAVE MORE QUESTIONS
REGARDING THIS.
BUT LIKE I SAID, I HOPE WE'LL
HAVE MORE INFORMATION FOR YOU
IN THE NEXT COUPLE SESSIONS
BEFORE WE MOVE ON FROM THAT
FIRST COMMENT WHICH WAS MINE
AND I GUESS LIKE MY WHOLE THING
WAS IT READ TO ME LIKE WHAT WE
JUST SAID WE DON'T WANT TO SAY
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S A
WAY TO EITHER PUT IN WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH JUST
EXPRESS FROM PAGE ONE OF SIX
INTO THAT FIRST BULLET.
>> I MEAN MAYBE THIS IS NOT
WHAT IT INTENDS BUT IT'S LIKE
OH OK WILL DEVELOP WHEN WE REDO
INFRASTRUCTURE AND LIKE YES
OF COURSE IT WOULD PROVIDE
ECONOMIES OF SCALE BUT LIKE I
DON'T WANT US TO LIKE NOT ALLOW
A DEVELOPMENT IN CERTAIN AREAS
BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE WATER OR
SEWER ER WE CAN PROVIDE WATER.
YEAH RIGHT.
BUT LIKE FOR FOR UPGRADES I
MEAN I DON'T KNOW BUT THAT I
DIDN'T I JUST DIDN'T LOVE HOW
THAT READ OK I HAVE A COMMENT
HERE TO LOOK AT PAGE ONE OF SIX
AND MAYBE WE CAN BRING THAT
FORWARD OK I'M REALLY SORRY I
TOLD YOU THIS BEFORE I I LEFT
MY HOMEWORK AT HOME FOURTEEN
PAGE DOCUMENT OR WHATEVER IT
WAS FROM LAST TIME AND I CANNOT
FIND IT ONLINE.
I LOOKED IT'S ALL RIGHT THANK
YOU BECAUSE I I KNOW WHAT I
WROTE BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT
ANYBODY ELSE WROTE SO I REALLY
WANT TO KNOW WHAT YOU GUYS ARE
TALKING ABOUT OK IT'S ALL RIGHT
WE WILL SHARE AND I DON'T THINK
YOU HAVE TO BE THERE DO YOU
KNOW BECAUSE HE WASN'T BUT IF
HE WASN'T HERE I DON'T KNOW.
ALL RIGHT OK THANK YOU.
SORRY TO BE MORE AWKWARD LONGER
WHEN I GET LOL I COULDN'T DO IT
THEN REALLY JUST BULLIED YOU.
ALL RIGHT MOVING ON.
ALL RIGHT NOW WE'RE ON TO
TRANSIT.
>> YES.
UM THERE'S A QUESTION HERE
ABOUT WASHTENAW AS A STATE ROAD
AND IF WE HAVE ANY CONTROL OVER
IMPROVING UM TRANSIT PEDESTRIAN
AND BICYCLE IMPROVEMENTS UH I
MEAN THAT WAS ME AGAIN.
>> I WAS BEING REALLY SNARKY IN
SOME OF THESE.
>> THERE IS A TRUNK LINE STUDY
THAT'S GOING ON WHERE THE CITY
IS CONSIDERING BUYING THOSE.
UM, SO I SUPPOSE WE'RE PLANNING
AS IF WE WILL HAVE CONTROL OVER
THEM.
>> IS THAT YOUR READ ON IT,
BRET?
THAT'S GREAT TO ME.
YEAH.
I MEAN LET'S TAKE IT OVER.
I MEAN I THINK I THINK THE
ASPIRATIONS WERE DOING THAT
STUDY BECAUSE WE WANT MORE
AGENCY TO MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT
THAT CORE.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF IFS THERE,
LOTS OF IFS.
>> OKEYDOKEY WE TALKED A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE RESILIENCE AND
JUST TO SAY ON PAGE EIGHTY
THREE I WILL ASK THE
CONSULTANTS ABOUT THE
UNIVERSITY BUS SYSTEM.
OK THANK YOU.
YEAH BECAUSE THAT ACTUALLY
CARRIES A LOT OF RIDERSHIP.
IT DOES YEAH IT ALLOWS US TO
GET THAT ON THAT MAP OF FIVE
PERCENT OF PEOPLE USE A BUS
SYSTEM WHICH IS KIND
OF REMARKABLE FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> MY GUESS IS THEY MAY NOT
EVEN KNOW IT EXISTS LIKE I MEAN
I THINK BECAUSE THIS CITY WITH
THEM THAT'S WHY I WAS WE HAVE
DISCUSSED WITH THEM.
THAT'S WHY I THOUGHT THE REASON
IT WASN'T IN HERE IS MAYBE THE
DATA WASN'T AVAILABLE FOR THEM
TO MAP.
SO I WILL CHECK OK AGAIN OR
JUST EVEN JUST SAY THAT THERE
IS I MEAN IT DOES SAY EXISTING
BUS ROUTES AND THAT'S NOT SPLIT
OUT BUT I KNOW LATER IT TALKS
ABOUT THE FUTURE UNIVERSITY
PLANS BUT DOESN'T KNOW WHERE IN
THE PLAN DOES IT TALK ABOUT
EXISTING UNIVERSITY
TRANSPORTATION.
>> OK OK UM CAN I MOVE ON TO
PAGE EIGHTY FOUR.
>> YEAH I MEAN WILLING TO GO TO
EIGHTY SIX.
>> WELL ON THE RESILIENCE HERE
I THINK THERE'S A FEW QUESTIONS
ABOUT THIS TOPIC AND HOW IT'S
ADDRESSED.
WE ARE TRYING TO ALIGN AGAIN
WITH THE EIGHT TO ZERO
RESILIENCY HUBS ARE A COMPONENT
OF THEIR PLAN AND SO THAT'S WHY
THESE ARE HERE.
IF YOU WANTED A LITTLE
BACKGROUND BUT THERE ARE SOME
QUESTIONS HERE ABOUT THIS FEELS
LIKE IT'S THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME IT'S BEING ADDRESSED FOR
OUR CONCERN ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE IS BEING ADDRESSED.
WHY IS THIS ELEVATED TO AN
ENTIRE GOAL?
BUT THEN OTHER PEOPLE SAY IT
FEELS A LITTLE TOO LIGHT.
>> SO I GUESS I'D LIKE SOME
GUIDANCE ON HOW YOU ALL WOULD
LIKE TO DISCUSS RESILIENCY HUBS
AS GOALS.
I THINK THAT THEY'RE REALLY
IMPORTANT COMMUNITY
INFRASTRUCTURE
PARTICULARLY FOR
FOR VULNERABLE POPULATIONS AND
SO I WOULD REQUIRE SOME SPECIAL
DECISIONS WHICH IS WHERE MY IS
WHERE WE'RE LIKE WHERE THEY
SHOULD GO.
SO I THINK THAT IT'S AN
IMPORTANT GOAL TO INCLUDE HERE
BECAUSE I DO THINK HOW MANY
PEOPLE MIGHT BE SERVED BY
RESILIENCY HUB LINKS TO HOW HOW
MUCH GROWTH YOU MIGHT HAVE IN
AN AREA AND IF WE HAVE MORE
POPULATION YOU MAY NEED MORE
HUBS.
RIGHT.
AND SO THAT'S WHY I THINK
MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE PLANNING
FOR THEM IS SOMETHING THAT'S
USEFUL AND IT IS AND IN OUR
PLAN AND WE ARE BECAUSE THE NEW
FIRE STATION IS GOING TO BE A
RESILIENCE HUB THEN THE
ELECTION CENTER IS SUPPOSED TO
BE ANOTHER PLACE.
SO ISN'T THE CITY ALREADY DO I
DON'T KNOW WHO IN THE CITY IS
DOING THIS UNDER THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR JUST BROADLY I
BELIEVE THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION.
>> OH, AND THAT'S DRIVING THIS
.
AND SO IF I WERE TO ADDRESS
THIS LAST BULLET POINT HERE,
THAT'S WHY ARE THOSE CITY OWNED
SITES AND NOT LOCAL BUSINESSES
BECAUSE I THINK THEY'RE MEANT
TO ALSO INCLUDE TOOLS YOU MIGHT
NEED THERE LIKE THEY COULD BE
POTENTIALLY WELL THEY COULD BE
CENTERS WHERE IF YOUR POWER
GOES OUT THERE ARE THINGS THAT
ARE THERE LIKE A FOOD PANTRY.
SO IT IS SOMETHING THE CITY
FEELS LIKE I THINK THEY NEED TO
TAKE ON.
>> THAT'S ABOUT AS MUCH AS I
KNOW THE THING I RAISED BEFORE
WE GOT THE DRAFT WAS DO WE HAVE
ANY THOUGHTS OR PLANS FOR CITY
WIDE CATASTROPHES?
SO WE JUST SAW THE HUGE
FLOODING THAT WENT THROUGH THE
MOUNTAIN REGION IN NORTH
CAROLINA AND IT JUST WIPED OUT
THE TOWNS SO PEOPLE WEREN'T
ABLE TO GET OUT AS QUICKLY.
AND SO I JUST REMEMBER SAYING,
YOU KNOW, DO WE HAVE TRAIN
INFRASTRUCTURE?
WE COULD MOVE PEOPLE OR BUS
INFRASTRUCTURE OR WE COULD JUST
MOVE PEOPLE OUT OF THE CITY IF
WE HAD A LARGE NATURAL
DISASTER.
SO NOTHING THAT I FEEL LIKE YOU
HAVE TO SPECIFICALLY ADDRESS
BUT I WOULD LOVE TO JUST HAVE
IT BE IN THE META CONVERSATION
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THESE
RESILIENCY HUBS BECAUSE THAT
THAT COMMUNITY NEVER THOUGHT
THAT THEY WOULD BE IMPACTED BY
THAT KIND OF ECOLOGICAL
DISASTER AND A LOT OF PEOPLE
LOST THEIR LIVES BECAUSE THE
COMMUNITY DIDN'T I DON'T WANT
TO BLAME THEM FOR SOMETHING
THEY DIDN'T HAVE CONTROL OVER
SO THERE WEREN'T PLANS IN PLACE
TO HELP MOVE LOTS OF PEOPLE
QUICKLY.
>> SO THOSE ARE TYPICALLY
THEY'RE CALLED HAZARD
MITIGATION PLANS ARE TYPICALLY
DONE AT THE COUNTY LEVEL SO THE
CITY WOULDN'T TAKE THAT ON
ANYWAY.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE WE DO HAVE ONE
IN ARBER DOES IT ALL.
>> OH OK GREAT.
YEAH WE HAVE TWENTY TWENTY TWO
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
I DON'T PROFESS TO BE
CONVERSANT AT ALL.
I DON'T THINK ANY OF US ARE BUT
I CAN TELL YOU THAT LINK YEAH
WE DO I CAN TELL YOU THAT WE
ALSO HAVE AN ACTIVE EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND WE DO
TABLETOP EXERCISES SO BUT I
ALSO SIGFUSSON FOR FULL
TRANSPARENCY THAT YOU KNOW THE
WORLD IS FINDING NEW WAYS TO
TRAGEDIES AND NEW EMERGENCIES
SO BUT WE ARE ACTIVE THE CITY
DOES INVEST IN THAT FOR SURE.
SO MAYBE THE PLAN SHOULD
ACKNOWLEDGE WE'RE DOING THOSE
THINGS ELSEWHERE AND THAT WE
SHOULD CONNECT THE PLANNING
THAT WE'RE DOING TO THOSE OTHER
EFFORTS.
>> YEAH, BECAUSE THAT COULD
JUST SENTENCE TO SAY THE CITY
IS AWARE THAT ECOLOGICAL
DISASTERS ARE COMMONPLACE AND
WE ARE CREATING PLANS AND
ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT THE
RESILIENCY OF OUR COMMUNITY.
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY
POSITIVE STATEMENT.
>> SO THERE SO I REALLY HATE TO
DISAGREE WITH MR. GARBER
BECAUSE HE MAKES SUCH AMAZING
THOUGHTFUL COMMENTS ALL THE
TIME.
>> BUT RESILIENCE ISN'T JUST AN
ECOLOGICAL CONCEPT.
I MEAN IT REALLY IS BEING USED
APPROPRIATELY TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT WE'RE GETTING HIT BY A
BIGGER AND BIGGER NATURAL
PHENOMENA AND THEIR DISASTERS
AND A LOT OF WAYS NOT BECAUSE
THE NATURAL PHENOMENA ARE
HAPPENING.
IT'S BECAUSE WE'VE BUILT IN
PLACES WHERE WE'VE MADE
OURSELVES SUSCEPTIBLE TO THEM.
SO THERE IS A PLANNING
CONNECTION TO RESILIENCE ABOUT
THINKING THROUGH WHERE WE'VE
WHERE WE'RE ALLOWING
DEVELOPMENT TO TAKE PLACE AND
WHAT STEPS ARE WE TAKING TO TRY
AND MITIGATE POTENTIAL HARM
THAT WAY THAT'S NOT ADDRESSED
HERE.
THIS IS ALL MAKING ME THINK I'M
TRYING TO REMEMBER IS IT
ADDRESSED ELSEWHERE THE PLAN?
>> I DON'T REMEMBER.
IT'S I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
ADDRESSED ELSEWHERE THE PLAN
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'M
IMAGINING OUR DIRECTOR OF THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT'S NOT
WHAT I WAS LIKE BUT THIS IS
WHAT HER PHD DISSERTATION WAS
ON WHICH IS SPECIFICALLY
THINKING ABOUT EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING AND SO
I THINK THE BIG THING IS YOU
CAN PLAN FOR THE EXISTING
HAZARD YOU HAVE SOME LOUSY
PLACES WE HAVE LET PEOPLE BUILD
IN THE PAST WHAT THE LOOP THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN IS THINKING
ABOUT HOW YOU MAKE IT MORE
RESILIENT THE FUTURE.
AND SO I'M IMAGINING THAT
TARGETING SPECIFICALLY ASKING
HER TO IF THIS IS GOOD LANGUAGE
OR BEEFING UP ONE OF THESE
WOULD BE AMAZING.
IT'S NOT LIKE WE'RE ARE WE'RE
ARE OUR REAL VULNERABILITIES
THAT WE MIGHT WANT TO LOOK OUT
FOR IN THE FUTURE BECAUSE
THEY'VE DONE A LOT OF WORK AND
THIS IS WRITTEN AS IF NONE
OF THAT WORK HAS HAPPENED.
AND SO I WE JUST NEED TO LOOK
AT IT.
>> I THINK THE NOTE IS TO PULL
OUT MORE INFORMATION FROM WELL
MAKE DRAW THOSE CONNECTIONS
BETWEEN THE OTHER EFFORTS THAT
ARE GOING WE DON'T NEED TO
RECREATE THE WILL HERE BUT LINK
TO THEM.
BUT WOULD BE USEFUL TO HEAR
FROM OUR DIRECTOR IF SHE'S SEEN
PLACES IN THE PLAN THAT WE
COULD BE SPEAKING MORE
FORCEFULLY TO ACKNOWLEDGE WHAT
WE CAN DO THROUGH PLANNING
EFFORTS TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
MINIMIZING THE POTENTIAL FOR
FUTURE HARM.
>> SO I WROTE THE I HAD THE
FIRST COMMENT RESILIENCE WHERE
BECAUSE I FELT LIKE I JUST LIKE
JUMPED INTO THIS FULL EIGHT AND
THIS WAS PART OF MY IMPETUS FOR
SAYING LIKE CAN WE REORDER THEM
POTENTIALLY IF I THINK THIS IS
A GREAT GOAL IS JUST SORT
OF CAME OUT OF NOWHERE, I'D
LIKE TO SEE SOME LIKE SOME
DISCUSSION OF THIS AND MAYBE
THIS IS PART WHAT WHAT YOU'RE
JUST LIKE IN THE RATIONALE
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND IT'S YOU
KNOW, THAT'S KIND OF IT IT'S
LIKE THAT'S THE THIRD BULLET.
>> IT'S LIKE OH CLIMATE CHANGE
.
>> SO YOU WANT TO YOU WANT TO
PLACE IT LEAVE IT UP IN PAGE
EIGHTY TWO NOT SPECIFICALLY IN
GOAL ONE EIGHT POINT ONE OR
EIGHT POINT TO STRENGTHEN THE
RATIONALE TO LEAD INTO THE
GOAL.
YEAH BECAUSE IT JUST JUMPED OUT
AND THEN THAT'S WHERE YOU CAN
PUT YOUR FOOTNOTES TO GO BUT I
MEAN I JUST LITERALLY MEAN THAT
WHEN IT SAYS IT CAN INVEST IN
RESILIENCE TUB'S WE HAVE LIKE
WE HAVE TWO OF THEM OR POSSIBLY
THREE.
YES.
AND DON'T SHOW ME A PICTURE
OF A PARK BUILDING.
SHOW ME A PICTURE OF ONE OF THE
REASONS WE ARE THE MAP OF WHERE
THEY ARE PROPOSED LOCATIONS OR
SOMETHING AND THEN WE HAVE THIS
REALLY COOL MOBILE THING THAT
CAN GO AND BE IT CAN IT CAN BE
A SOLAR HUB.
I MEAN IT I MEAN SHE SHOWED IT
IT HAS WINGS EVERYWHERE.
YOU SHOULD ASK HER BECAUSE WE
SHOULD PUT A PICTURE HERE.
IT'S INCREDIBLY GOOD FOR
DIRECTOR STULTS KNOWS THIS BUT
THERE'S RESPONDING TO DISASTER
AFTER IT HAPPENS IS IMPORTANT
BUT IT'S DISTINCT FROM PLANNING
TO TRY AND GET PEOPLE OUT
OF HARM'S WAY IN THE FIRST
PLACE.
YES.
WHICH IS A LOT OF THE
FLOODPLAIN WORK THAT WE'VE BEEN
DOING IN THE CITY FOR A LONG
TIME.
YES, SO WE'VE BEEN DOING A LOT
OF THIS STUFF BUT IT'S JUST NOT
CONNECTED AND REFLECTED IN THE
QUESTION I HAVE AGAIN FOR THE
STAFF IS COULD WE BE PUTTING
SOMETHING IN PLAN TO MAKE SURE
WE'RE DOING THAT ANTICIPATORY
PLANNING BETTER?
YEAH.
CAN I RELAY THE NOTES THAT I
HAVE?
YES.
TO BEEF UP THE RATIONALE FOR
PAUL'S AND STRATEGIES EIGHT
POINT ONE AND EIGHT POINT TO
CONNECT TO THE CURRENT EFFORTS
THAT WE HAVE GOING ON WHICH
COULD INCLUDE A MAP OF OUR
EXISTING HUBS CONNECT TO THE
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN AND
THAT'S WHAT I HAVE WRITTEN.
I CAN ALSO SAY THAT ONCE WE GO
THROUGH OUR FIRST ROUND
OF EDITS IF WE WOULD LIKE
SPEAKERS TO COME, I'M SURE THAT
DR. STULTS WOULD LOVE TO COME
AND TALK ABOUT THIS AS WELL.
BUT I WOULDN'T ALLOW FOR THAT
UP ON HER BEHALF.
BUT DO THOSE SOUND LIKE ALL THE
EDITS BUT ASK DR. STULTZ TO IN
HER REVIEW OF THE PLAN SO I
DON'T KNOW THERE ARE PLACES
WHERE WE COULD BE MAKING SURE
WE'RE DOING UP FRONT PLANNING
TO MITIGATE THE POTENTIAL FOR
DISASTER RATHER THAN JUST
PLANNING TO RESPOND TO IT AFTER
IT HAPPENS.
I SAY THAT AGAIN.
CAN YOU SAY THAT AGAIN?
YEAH.
SO ASK HER TO GIVE US COUNSEL
ON ARE THERE PLACES IN THIS
PLANNING DOCUMENT WHERE WE
COULD EITHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THIS IS HAPPENING OR TAKE MORE
STEPS TO PLAN TO PREVENT
DISASTERS FROM HAPPENING IN THE
FIRST PLACE RATHER THAN JUST
PLANNING TO RESPOND TO THEM
AFTER THEY'VE TAKEN PLACE?
>> I MEAN THE GOAL ITSELF.
YEAH, AND THE GOAL ITSELF IS
CLIMATE CHANGE READINESS WHICH
IS WHICH WHICH IS THE PART
OF THAT WHICH IS PART OF IT SO
SO BUT I KNOW THAT SHE'S GOT A
MUCH BETTER BEAD ON WHAT THE
CITY IS DOING MIGHT HAVE SOME
MORE FIRM IDEAS ABOUT WHAT WE
COULD SAY TO MAKE SURE THAT
BASE IS COVERED .
>> YES, I'LL ASK HER THAT.
SHE'S ALSO REVIEWING THE PLAN
SO I WILL RELAY HER AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
IS THAT EVERYTHING FOR THE
RESILIENCE?
>> YES.
OK, I WOULD LIKE TO ASK ABOUT
PAGE EIGHTY SIX.
THERE'S A NOTE ON WATER TRANSIT
HUBS.
YEAH I THINK THIS IS A GOOD
QUESTION.
I THINK WE SAY THAT A LOT AND
YOU'RE ASKING IS TRANSIT CENTER
ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT MAYBE A
CONCENTRATION OR BUS STOP
SOMEWHERE?
SO I THINK WE SHOULD GET THAT
TERMINOLOGY CORRECT.
BRET, DO YOU HAVE AN
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT WE MEAN
BY TRANSIT HUBS IS DIFFERENT
THAN JUST A TRANSIT CORRIDOR
AND OR THE DOWNTOWN BUS DEPOT?
UM, I DON'T KNOW.
LET ME RESEARCH REAL
WORK TO
SEE THAT'S PART OF OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND DEFINED
OK WE MAY HAVE YEAH.
>> WE MAY HAVE PULLED THAT TERM
FROM THE TRANSPORTATION AND SO
WE WILL LOOK INTO THAT GREAT.
OK LOOK AT TRANSIT PLAN OK THE
PAGE STILL SORRY OK PAGE
FOURTEEN I WAS LIKE WAIT WE'RE
ON EIGHTY SIX WHY DID YOU GO
ALL THE WAY BACK TO 14TH.
SORRY I WAS JUST GOING TO GO
BACK I WAS JUST AT THE BOTTOM
OF EIGHTY SIX JUST THESE BLUE
LIGHT IT MAKES IT LOOK LIKE
SCRIBNER'S NOTES SHOULD BE
CHANGED SO HOWEVER WE WANT TO I
THINK WE'VE ADDRESSED THIS
SOMEWHERE ELSE SO IF YOU JUST
DO A DITTO YEAH.
OK MY COMMENT IS THE ONE ON THE
TOP OF PAGE FOURTEEN ON PAGE
EIGHTY SIX AND IT'S JUST MORE
OF THE SAME I'VE JUST LIKE
THERE'S JUST NOT THEY DON'T
TALK ABOUT THE SEPARATE TRANSIT
OR RIDE SHARING OR MICRO
MOBILITY OR CAR SHARING OR
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION OR AND
AND IT JUST SEEMS LIKE WE NEED
TO I REALIZE THIS ISN'T THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN BUT LIKE
LEAVING WAS OUT SEEMED I MEAN
WE SEE SO MUCH MICRO MOBILITY
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IT'S
WILD LIKE THE CONSTRUCTION, THE
PEOPLE WORKING ON THE ELBEL
BUILDING ALL RIDE THERE SPIN
SCOOTERS AND THEIR ONE WHEELS
AND IT'S GREAT I MEAN IT'S COOL
TO SEE ALL THESE LIKE HIGH VIZ
PEOPLE STREAMING AWAY FROM
BUILDING BUT IT'S LIKE WE
REALLY NEED TO INCLUDE SOME
OF THAT BECAUSE I THINK JUST
TALKING ABOUT CAR DEPENDENCY
AND BICYCLES IS THERE ARE OTHER
PIECES TOO.
>> SO IF YOU'RE RIGHT, HE'S
MENTIONED I KNOW BECAUSE I WAS
GOING TO SAY BECAUSE THEY'RE
GOING TO THEY'RE GOING TO AGE
OUT BUT IF WE CAN GRAB SOME
MOBILITY OR YEAH.
BALL TYPE MOTOR OR LIKE VEHICLE
SHARING OR TRANSIT SHARING OR
SOMETHING LIKE I DON'T KNOW
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO EACH
OTHER SINCE CREOLE PEOPLE I
KNOW THAT'S NOT WHAT I MEANT.
I MEANT THE TECHNOLOGY MY NOT
THE PEOPLE NAMES NOT IN AGES
MORE YEARS AND THE DEVICES WILL
AND I I SEE THE SAME
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS BECAUSE
WHAT THEY USUALLY DO IS PARK
AWAY FROM THE SITE AND TAKE THE
MULTIMODAL TO THE SITE SO
THEY'RE ON A B2B TRAIL, THEY'RE
GETTING THE BIKE LANES AND I
ACTUALLY THINK IT'S REALLY
COOL.
>> I THINK IT'S FUN.
YEAH.
SO OK I JUST HAVE TO ADDRESS
MICRO MOBILITY AND WE CAN LIST
SOME OF THESE PROUDLY.
>> YES.
MICRO REALTY AND REGIONAL
REGIONAL TRANSIT I THINK THINGS
THAT WE DON'T TALK ABOUT MUCH
BUT TRANSPORTATION ACTUALLY
TALKS ABOUT MOBILITY HUBS AND
DEFINES THEM AS INTEGRATED HUBS
THAT FOR A VARIETY OF MOBILITY
OPTIONS SHOCKINGLY THESE
SCOOTER PARKING TARGETING CARS
ALONG WITH SHORT AND LONG TERM
BIKE PARKING.
BUT WE DON'T DO WE WE DON'T
HAVE ANY OF THOSE BUT THEY'RE
PART OF YOUR ADAPTIVE
TRANSPORTATION.
OK, WELL WE DON'T HAVE TO YEAH.
OH TO CREATE THERE WE GO.
YEAH SOMEDAY WHEN WE DO HAVE
YOU WILL KNOW WHAT THEY ARE
WHICH ONE BY TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AND CREATE THREE
ADDITIONAL ONES BY TWENTY
THREE.
OH OK GREAT.
THAT WASN'T ASSIGNED TO
PLANNING COMMISSION IT WAS NOT
SHOW UP IN THE VIP THOUGH THAT
WE WILL ULTIMATELY BE
RESPONSIBLE.
>> OK HOW ABOUT STRATEGY NINE
POINT THREE.
>> THERE'S A COMMENT HERE THAT
IT'S BIG IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
SUGGESTING CONGESTION PRICING
WHICH I DON'T THINK WE ARE SO
WE SHOULD WORK ON THAT WORDING
THAT WAS ME TO GOD.
YEAH WE KNOW BUT YOU CAN TELL
NOW.
YEAH I JUST DIDN'T I DIDN'T
REALLY LOVE THIS STRATEGY AND
HOW IT WAS WORDED.
I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT TRANSPORTATION DEMAND
MANAGEMENT LIKE WHAT WHAT
EXACTLY ARE WE TALKING ABOUT
BECAUSE I READ ESPECIALLY WITH
THE PRESIDENT WHEN IT'S LIKE
WORKING PRICES VARY I'M LIKE
WHAT ARE WE I JUST WASN'T
REALLY SURE WHERE THEY WERE
GETTING A YEAH.
I THINK THE STRATEGY MAKES
SENSE TO ME.
BUT THEN YOU'RE SAYING LIKE THE
PARAGRAPH THAT DESCRIBES IT
REFERS TO SEVERAL DIFFERENT
THINGS.
>> WHAT WOULD YOU ALL LIKE IT
TO SAY?
>> SOMEONE ELSE LIKES IT?
I DON'T I CAN'T I'M TRYING TO
REMEMBER AND TRYING TO REREAD
IT AND TALK AT THE SAME TIME
BECAUSE I READ THIS LIKE OVER
WE CAN FOLLOW BUT SO TO ME THE
LAST SENTENCE MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE.
THIS IS WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT UPGRADE INFRASTRUCTURE TO
FACILITATE A MODE SHIFT BY
CONTINUING TO BUILD A NETWORK
OF LOW STRESS BASE BICYCLE
CONNECTIONS AND A SHARED USE
OF TRAILS THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
MAYBE IT'S THE TOP PART THAT
YOU'RE REFERRING TO WHEN WE
WERE PARKING IN THE PARKING
SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
YEAH, IT'S PRICES TRIPS
ACCORDING TO THEIR IMPACT ON
THE CITY.
THAT'S WHERE I LIKE ME.
THAT'S WHERE I THAT'S WHERE I
GOT THE REGIONAL CONGESTION
PRICING HERE WHICH I'M SURE
WE'RE NOT.
SO THAT CAN WE JUST REMOVE THAT
SENTENCE.
YEAH.
YES OK.
AND THEN THE REST OF IT IS
CLEAR AND WHAT WE'D LIKE TO SEE
WELL I MEAN I WOULD BE I WOULD
BE CURIOUS WHAT WHAT
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND
MANAGEMENT STRATEGY THEY ARE
TALKING ABOUT OR IF THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT'S IN THE MOVING
TOGETHER PLAN IF WE CAN EITHER
REFER TO THAT OR PUT IN A
COUPLE EXAMPLES DIFFERENTLY IN
THE PLAN AGAIN IN THE ARLINGTON
,VIRGINIA RELEVANT USEFUL IT'S
A VERY DIFFERENT PLACE.
WE CAN CONTINUE TO REMOVE THE
GREEN AND BLUE BOX.
>> YES.
I JUST WASN'T SURE IF WE HAD IF
WE NEED TO SAY THAT FOR EACH
OF THE GREEN AND BLUE BOXES.
>> YEAH, I THINK WE NEED TO GO
BOX BY BOX FOR WHAT YOU ALL
WOULD LIKE TO ASSURE ME.
>> I HAVEN'T MADE A NOTE REMOVE
ALL OF THEM.
I JUST AS WE GO I MAKE A NOTE I
WOULD PUT ON THE TABLE REMOVING
THAT ONE THIS ONE FROM DOES
ANYONE DISAGREE?
NO.
OK, DO YOU KNOW WHAT TIM IS
REFERRING TO SO IN THE MOVING
TOGETHER PLAN TRANSPORTATION
DEMAND MANAGEMENT IS ONE OF THE
PRIMARY GOALS THE STRATEGY AND
TARGET THERE IS FOCUSED ON
EMPLOYER BUT THE STRATEGY IS TO
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYER
SUBSIDIZED TRANSIT PASSES
DISTRIBUTED BY TWENTY THIRTY.
SO IT IS NOT IN THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
IT'S NOT REALLY GOING TO
CONGESTION PRICING OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT BUT RATHER I GUESS
MORE OLD SCHOOL VERSION
OF TRANSPORTATION DEMAND
MANAGEMENT THINKING ABOUT OUR
PATTERNS ABOUT HOW YOU KNOW THE
TRIP GENERATION TIME PERIODS
ARE REALIZE BY MODE SHIFT AND
PERHAPS EVEN AT WHAT TIMES
COULD WE JUST ASK THE D.A. HOW
THAT'S GOING BECAUSE THEY'RE
THE ONES WHO GIVE THOSE TO THE
EMPLOYERS IN DAY.
>> BUT I THINK THIS PLAN
ASPIRES TO BROWNELL'S FOR
CITYWIDE.
OK, WELL OK SO THEN MAYBE JUST
EXPANDING THE MODEL THAT THE
DAYS USING AND DDA DID DO A
CURB STUDY AND THEY ALSO
CHANGED THEIR PARKING STRUCTURE
RATE STRUCTURE SO WE COULD PUT
SOME OF THE ACTUAL THINGS THAT
WE'RE DOING RATHER THAN A
QUESTIONABLY RELEVANT WELL IN
THE EXAMPLE THE CONNECTION WITH
THE UNIVERSITY TO GIVE ALL
UNIVERSITY FACULTY, STAFF AND
STUDENTS FREE BUS PASSES.
>> YEAH, WHICH I USE IS ALL THE
TIME.
>> YEAH I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING TO NOTE THAT I USE IT
DEFINITELY IN THE PLAN IN
ADDITION TO ALLOWING ALL CITY
ALL RESIDENTS OF ANY PLACE TO
USE THE UNIVERSITY BUS SYSTEM
WHICH IS AN OPEN BUS SYSTEM OH
THEY NOW ALLOW NON STUDENTS TO
THEY'VE ALWAYS ALLOWED NUNS TO
DELIVER.
IT'S NOT LIKE PUBLICIZED.
>> I HAD NO IDEA UNTIL I USED
TO PLAY AN WHY DID THEY OPEN
THE FRONT DOOR AND BACK DOOR
AND EVERYBODY GETS ON AND OFF
AT THE SAME TIME AS BLUE BUSSES
AND NOBODY AMAZING IT IS TO
KEEP IN MIND I THINK IN LARGE
PART IT IS BECAUSE THERE ARE A
LOT OF GUESTS TO THE UNIVERSITY
AND THAT YOU DON'T WANT TO HAVE
TO REQUIRE EVERY US TO HAVE A
PASS TO GET TO ANOTHER PART
OF THE UNIVERSITY.
BUT THEY'RE GOING TO CHARGE FOR
THAT MONORAIL.
OH, THAT'S FREE.
THE MONORAIL MIGHT BE A IT
SUPPOSED TO BE I THINK IS
SUPPOSED TO BE FREE.
>> THE COMMISSIONER NORTON DID
YOU HAVE SOMETHING?
>> NO, I'M WAITING FOR THE NEXT
SESSION NEXT TUESDAY.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR THAT
ONE, RIGHT?
>> YES.
OK, UM, WHY DON'T WE START WITH
WHAT YOU ALL HAVE BECAUSE THIS
LOOKS LIKE IT'S TALKING ABOUT
NATURAL FEATURES AND FOR SOME
REASON I HAVE HERE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS.
SO THERE MIGHT THERE'S THEY'RE
PROBABLY TIED IN TOGETHER BUT
WE CAN START WITH YOUR
COMMENTS.
>> UH, ASIDE FROM THE ONES THAT
I HAVE BLOCKED UNDER
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS, DO YOU
WANT TO START?
>> SURE.
SO I DIDN'T HAVE A CHANCE TO
PROVIDE WRITTEN COMMENTS SO I'M
KIND OF MAKING COMMENTS ON THE
FLY AND THIS MAYBE IS ANOTHER
THING OF NEEDING TO GO BACK TO
THE RATIONALE.
>> BUT I'M REALLY SORRY I TEACH
ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING.
I REALLY GRAPPLE WITH WANTING
TO KEEP PLACES GREEN.
I RECOGNIZE THE BENEFITS
OF HAVING NATURAL FEATURES IN
URBAN SETTINGS AND ALL THE
DESIGN FEATURES THOSE POWS.
BUT I ALSO I'M REALLY WORRIED
ABOUT PROTECTING MEANINGFULLY
LARGE ECOLOGY PRODUCTIVE PLACES
AND THAT MEANS ESPECIALLY RURAL
PLACES AND THE WAY TO REALLY
PROTECT RURAL PLACES IS TO
BUILD MORE DENSELY IN CITIES
BEING GREEN MEANS BUILDING IN
CITIES AND PROTECTING THE
REALLY VALUABLE VITAL GREEN
SPACES AND WE HEARD SOME
COMMENTS TONIGHT WHY YOU KNOW,
WHY DON'T WE USE ALL OF THE
GREEN
SPACE TO EVERYONE UP AND
BUILD OUT THERE?
SO I'M A LITTLE BIT WORRIED AND
WHEN PEOPLE TALK ABOUT OPEN
SPACE AND GREEN SPACE THEY'RE
THINKING ABOUT LAWN MANICURED
LAWNS AND THAT'S AN ESTHETIC
THING AND IT IS GREEN IN A
SENSE BUT IT'S NOT GREEN FROM
AN ECOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT THIS PLANET IS
GRAPPLING WELL ENOUGH OR KIND
OF LAYING OUT THAT THERE IS
SOME REAL TRADEOFFS THAT WE
NEED TO CONTEMPLATE AS A
COMMUNITY.
AND IF WE TAKE THE STANCE THAT
EVERY TREE HAS TO BE PROTECTED
THEN WE MIGHT AS WELL JUST STOP
BUILDING NOW.
SO WE HAVE TO BE CAREFUL
OF THAT AND AND THERE WAS
SOMEBODY COMMENTED ABOUT THE
STATEMENT THAT ALL OF THE VITAL
RESOURCES ARE IN PUBLIC
OWNERSHIP AND SOMEONE'S
CONTESTING THAT I DON'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT WHAT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION IS
DOING AND WHAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING.
IT SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING WE
SHOULD BE CONSIDERING THEN OR
AT LEAST I WOULD LIKE TO LEARN
MORE ABOUT IT.
BUT THERE'S A THERE'S A DEBATE
HERE THAT I THINK WE NEED TO
GRAPPLE WITH THE MORE DIRECTLY
AND RIGHT NOW MY FEELING IS
THIS IS JUST GLOSSING OVER IT
TOO QUICKLY.
I DON'T HAVE THE SOLUTION
THOUGH I I THINK THERE NEEDS TO
BE SOME MORE DISCUSSION IN IN
THE RATIONALE THAT TALKS ABOUT
THOSE TRADEOFFS AND RECOGNIZES
THEM AND ACKNOWLEDGES THEM AND
THEN AND I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION IS
DOING BUT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO GRAPPLE WITH THIS TRADE OFF
IN A MEANINGFUL WAY BECAUSE
IT'S AN IMPORTANT ONE AND I
WOULD HATE FOR THE WHOLE CITY
TO BE COMPLETELY PAVED OVER
WITH CONCRETE BUT I THINK WE
CAN IDENTIFY AND STILL DO A LOT
OF GREEN THINGS AT THE SAME
TIME AND THAT MEANS A LOT
OF REALLY GOOD CREATIVE URBAN
ECOLOGICAL DESIGN.
HOW MUCH DETAIL DO WE GET IN
THAT IN A PLAN?
I DON'T THINK A LOT BUT WE NEED
TO QUEUE IT UP SO THAT THAT'S
AN IMPORTANT THING TO BE
THINKING ABOUT AS WE PROCEED
WITH MORE REGULATIONS AND SUCH
AND KIND OF PLAY OUT THE
DETAILS.
>> MAYBE ONE POTENTIAL SOLUTION
IS BECAUSE GOLD IS JUST THE
START OF CHAPTER WE JUST JUMP
RIGHT INTO HOUSING AND
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THERE ARE TRADEOFFS FOR ALL
OF THESE DIFFERENT THINGS
WITHIN THIS CHAPTER AND MAYBE
IT WOULD MAKE SENSE TO HAVE AN
INTRO PART TO THAT CHAPTER
BEFORE WE JUST JUMP INTO THE
FIRST SECTION THAT HAS MORE
DETAILED DISCUSSION ABOUT THOSE
TRADEOFFS.
PEOPLE ARE SCARED ABOUT REALLY
TALL BUILDINGS BUT THEY'RE ALSO
SCARED ABOUT WHAT THEY PERCEIVE
TO BE THE CHARACTER, THE
GREENNESS OF THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THEN THAT'S
NOT AN UNREASONABLE THING FOR
FOLKS TO WORRY ABOUT.
BUT IF WE DECIDE WE'RE GOING TO
PROTECT THAT AT ALL COSTS,
WHATEVER IT IS WE'RE LOCKING UP
ON A LOT OF LAND THAT'S NOT
REALLY ECOLOGICALLY PRODUCTIVE
AND WE COULD PROBABLY DO BETTER
.
>> SO MORE DEVELOPMENT.
THE THING I WANTED TO SAY WAS
GOOD ON EIGHTY EIGHT IS THIS
BLUEBOX ABOUT GREEN
INFRASTRUCTURE.
I THINK THAT'S GREAT UNDER THE
PRESIDENT'S I WOULD SUGGEST
THERE HAVE BEEN COMMUNITIES
THAT HAVE RESTORED THEIR TREE
COVER AND THE WAY THEY HAVE
DONE THAT IS BY REMOVING
PARKING SO THEY WILL REMOVE
PARKING AND ADD ADDITIONAL
TREES WHICH CAN GET US TOWARDS
THE GOAL AND THE WASHINGTON
POST I THINK THIS MONTH
RELEASED A DATA UM WHATEVER
THEY CALL IT ON THEIR NEWSPAPER
OR DASHBOARD.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
ON THE LOSS AND GROWTH OF TREE
COVERAGE IN CITIES AND SO YOU
CAN ACTUALLY GO PUT IN ANN
ARBOR AND OVER FIFTY YEARS YOU
CAN SEE HOW THE THE TREE
COVERAGE HAS CHANGED AND THEN
TODAY I SAW THAT IN PROBABLY IN
THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST SOME ONE
AGAIN THIS WOULD BE A PRECEDENT
THEY SORT SHOWED ALL OF THE
TREES AND THEN THEY IDENTIFIED
THE LOSS OF TREES AS A RESULT
OF DEVELOPMENT.
SO IF THERE WERE ONE HUNDRED
TREES ON THE INFO GRAPHIC,
THERE WERE ONLY THREE TREES
THAT WERE LOST BECAUSE
OF DEVELOPMENT.
AND SO I THINK TO COMMISSIONER
NORTON'S POINT, A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVE A PERCEPTION THAT A LOT
OF TREE COVERAGE IS GOING AWAY
BUT IT DOESN'T ACKNOWLEDGE THE
INVESTMENTS THAT THE CITY
ALREADY.
SO WE HAVE A TREE FUND THAT
PLANTS CITY TREES.
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
GIVES AWAY I THINK UP TO 10000
TREE SAPLINGS A YEAR AND I
THINK YOU COULD JUST REQUEST
TREES TOO IF YOU SORT OF WANT.
SO I THINK ALL OF THAT CAN
COUNTERACT A NARRATIVE THAT WE
ARE PAVING OVER OUR CITY THAT
IF WE ARE REALLY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE LOSS OF TREE COVERAGE
IN THE URBAN SPACE THEN I WOULD
SAY LET'S TRADE PARKING FOR
MORE TREES BECAUSE THAT SEEMS
LIKE A REALLY GOOD PAYOFF.
SO I WOULD JUST GIVE ALL
OF THAT TO YOU AND THAT COULD
GO IN PRECEDENT BECAUSE THERE
ARE COMMUNITIES THAT ARE DOING
THAT.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, THIS NICELY
KIND OF FOLLOWS BOTH OF THESE
UP AS YOU WERE TALKING,
COMMISSIONER NORTON, WHAT I WAS
THINKING BACK TO WAS OUR
CONVERSATION LAST WEEK ABOUT
PARKS AND QUANTITY VERSUS
QUALITY.
THAT CONVERSATION SHOULD HAPPEN
HERE AND IT WASN'T CALL ME NOT
EDUCATED.
>> I DIDN'T KNOW UNTIL GRAD
SCHOOL THAT LAKE LAWN WASN'T
GREAT FOR THE WORLD.
RIGHT.
LIKE AND SO THAT I THINK THAT
CONVERSATION IS IMPORTANT TO
HAVE.
RIGHT.
AND I THINK THAT THAT FITS IN
THIS THAT THAT SHOULD APPEAR
SOMEWHERE IN HERE ABOUT
THINKING ABOUT QUALITY VERSUS
QUANTITY.
>> THE OTHER THING AND I WROTE
A COUPLE OF COMMENTS ONE
OF THEM BACK AND WE'VE JUST
PASSED OVER IT BUT I'LL SAY IT
HERE BECAUSE ALSO IN TEN POINT
THREE WE NOTE THAT WE ARE URBAN
TREE CANOPIES.
THIRTY THREE PERCENT I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT IS GOOD RIGHT OR
FOR LIKE WHAT IS WHAT SHOULD
WELL I KNOW THAT IT'S GOOD BUT
LIKE IS IT GOOD AND RIGHT LIKE
I THINK THAT PEOPLE DON'T WANT
TO LOSE THE TREE CITY
DESIGNATION PROBABLY RIGHT.
AND SO LIKE WHAT DOES THAT
TAKE?
WHAT DOES THAT WHAT DOES IT
BASED ON?
AND SO THAT'S WHAT I WOULD WANT
TO PUT THIS IN CONTEXT BECAUSE
I'M WITH YOU THAT I THINK THAT
THERE'S WAYS TO STILL HAVE
GREEN AND YOU STILL HAVE TREES
AND ALSO THERE WILL BE IF THERE
ARE ADDITIONAL UNITS BUILT IN
SOMEBODY IS A BACKYARD WHERE
THERE'S A NICE SHADE TREE RIGHT
NOW LOOK, WE'RE GOING TO HEAR
ABOUT IT AND SO I WOULD REALLY
LIKE HIS PLAN TO PUT THAT
THIRTY THREE PERCENT IN
CONTEXT.
>> SURE.
AND WE'RE AT ONE POINT TO ONE
POINT FIVE MILLION TREES IN THE
CITY.
YES.
I CAN PLANT SO ALL THE RIGHT
LIKE BUT ALSO IT JUST THERE'S
TRADE OFFS.
>> I MEAN TEN TREES AND I
WONDERED IF I MEAN IF WE CAN
BENCHMARK AGAINST OTHER
COMMUNITIES.
OF COURSE MY HOMETOWN CAME TO
MIND EVANSTON BECAUSE IT IS
ALSO A TREE CITY.
I DON'T KNOW HOW OURS COMPARE
TO THAT.
I DON'T AND ARBOR'S COME HERE
TO EVANSTON BUT I WANTED TO
JUST VERY QUICKLY HIGHLIGHT
WHAT I CAN I FEEL LIKE IT'S
WEIRD WE CALL YOU MICHELLE AND
THEN WE'RE CALLING EACH OTHER
BY TITLE.
>> SO WHAT SAID ABOUT THE
GREENBELT AND THAT PART
OF BEING GREEN IS THAT YOU HAVE
THE GREEN BELT AND THEN YOU
IDENTIFY WHERE DENSITY IS
APPROPRIATE.
BUT I THINK ANN ARBOR IS REALLY
TRYING TO WORK AT BOTH ENDS
OF THE EQUATION BECAUSE WE DO
HAVE THE GREENBELT AND WE HAVE
MADE SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTIONS
BOTH TO PRESERVING AGRICULTURAL
LAND AND TO PRESERVING THINGS
THAT YOU KNOW, ABSORB CARBON .
BUT AT THE SAME TIME WE HAVE
REALLY ROBUST NATURAL FEATURES
PROTECTIONS AND WE HAVE STRONG
YOU REQUIREMENTS ABOUT
MITIGATING AND WE ARE TRYING TO
PUT EARLIER IN SITE REVIEW THE
CONSIDERATION OF NATURAL
FEATURES AND WE HAVE THIS
INNOVATIVE THING WHICH I THINK
WE MIGHT WANT TO PUT IN THE
PLAN BUT WE SHOULD ASK THE
LAWYERS WHICH IS THAT WE PLANT
TREES FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SO WE USE OUR STORMWATER
UTILITY TO INCREASE OUR TREE
CANOPY BECAUSE IT'S A
RECOGNIZED WAY BY THE EPA TO
MITIGATE FLOOD.
BUT THERE HAVE BEEN SOME LEGAL
CHALLENGES TO THAT AND SO I
DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT TO PAINT
A TARGET ON OUR BACK OR IF
THAT'S A THING THAT WE'RE
LEADING ON AND WE SHOULD PUT IT
IN THE PLAN.
>> BUT THAT'S A PRETTY COOL
THING THAT WE DO AT LEAST
CITIES ARE ALREADY DOING A
BUNCH OF STUFF ON TREES, NONE
OF WHICH IS THAT YEAH.
>> AND THAT'S WHAT I WAS GOING
TO SAY BECAUSE THE URBAN
FORESTRY NOTE ON THE CITY WEB
PAGE QUOTES THE TWENTY TWELVE
STUDY THAT WAS DONE BY THE
DAVIE RESOURCE GROUP AND THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT HATRA
RESOURCES THAT PEGGED THE
NUMBER OF TREES IN THE CITY AT
ONE POINT FOUR FIVE MILLION AND
THAT THOSE TREES REMOVE FOUR
AND FIVE TONS OF POLLUTION.
THE EQUIVALENT OF ABOUT THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY EIGHT
THOUSAND CARS.
>> SO LIKE HAVING THAT SORT
OF PIECE BECAUSE I THINK IN THE
MIND OF THE LOCAL RESIDENT WHEN
THEY SEE A TREE COME DOWN FOR A
HOUSING UNIT GOING UP THAT SORT
DEBATES SOMETHING.
>> BUT ON THE WHOLE I FEEL LIKE
WE ARE DOING THINGS.
>> AND THE OTHER THING I WANT
TO SAY BECAUSE PEOPLE SAY THIS
ALL OF THE TIME AT THE TABLE IS
THERE ARE NO RULES AND
REGULATIONS ABOUT MITIGATION
AND THE VERY FIRST THING THAT I
LEARNED WHAT I SAID AT THIS
TABLE IS EVERY SINGLE TREE ON A
DEVELOPMENT SITE IS COUNTED AND
TAGGED AND IF THEY ARE MATURE
TREES OR LANDMARK TREES THEY
HAVE TO BE REPLACED.
AND SO I DON'T THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE KNOW THAT IN THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
I THINK THEY THINK IT'S A FREE
FOR ALL YOU GET A SITE, YOU CAN
JUST STRIP IT AND THEN DO
WHATEVER YOU WANT AND THAT IS
NOT THE CASE UNIVERSALIS.
SO JUST A LITTLE SO I AGREE
WITH A LOT OF THE STATEMENTS
WERE MADE.
SO DURING THE CONVERSATION OVER
THE PAST YEAR AND A HALF WE
HEARD VOICES THAT SAID, YOU
KNOW, ALL OF THAT'S TRUE FOR
LARGER SCALE DEVELOPMENT WE
DON'T PROTECT TREES FOR SMALL
SCALE DEVELOPMENT THAT IS ONE
THROUGH FOUR DWELLING UNITS AND
THAT'S I I PUT THAT AS A TRADE
OFF.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT'S A
CONVERSATION THAT I HAD WITH
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
WHEN I APPEARED BEFORE THEM.
I START FROM THE PREMISE THAT
THE CITY HAD A REALLY ROBUST
NATURAL FEATURES PLAN ADOPTED
IN THE EARLY TWINS'.
WE'VE MADE A LOT OF WORK TO PUT
TOGETHER A REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
THAT I THINK THREATENS THE
BALANCE THAT COMMISSIONER
NORTON WAS TALKING ABOUT IN A
VERY EFFECTIVE WAY.
>> IT PROTECTS A LOT OF NATURAL
RESOURCES.
IT MITIGATES WHEN THEY ARE
IMPACTED OR LOST BUT IT IS NOT
ABSOLUTE THIS THIS PLAN I COME
TO YOU TO SAY THAT I AM NOT
PROPOSING THAT WE MARCH FORWARD
AND EXPAND THE IMPACT OF THOSE
.
I START FROM THE PREMISE THAT
WE HAVE A GOOD BALANCE AND IT'S
A FOCUS ON PROVIDING MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES, MAINTAINING OUR
BALANCE RATHER THAN STRIDENTLY
ADDING TO THOSE PROTECTION
FEATURES WHICH COULD RESULT IN
A SCARCITY OF DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITY OR COST AT A
MINIMUM IS NOT A PRIMARY GOAL
AT THIS POINT.
>> THOSE CURRENT EFFORTS COULD
BE BETTER DOCUMENTED IN THE
RATIONALE IN THE PLAN THAT
WOULD HELP A LOT.
AND SO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION IS WORKING ON
RESOLUTION THAT CHALLENGES THAT
THAT WOULD LIKE THEY WOULD LIKE
TO I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR
THEM BUT THAT RESOLUTION IS
GOING TO CHALLENGE THAT WE
SHOULD MOVE FORWARD IN THOSE
THOSE CATEGORIES OF PROTECTING
NATURAL FEATURES, PROTECTION
AND THE LIKE.
>> AND SO I AGREE I THINK BEING
TRANSPARENT AND HONEST BUT I
JUST WANTED TO BE OPEN WITH
THIS GROUP AT A MINIMUM TO SAY
THAT PART OF THE PREMISE THAT I
PRESENT TO YOU IN THIS PLAN IS
ATTEMPTING TO DO IS TO SAY
WE'VE GOT A REALLY GREAT
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK NOW IT'S A
GOOD BALANCE.
WE'RE NOT PROPOSING TO ERODE IT
.
>> WE ARE PROPOSING TO THINK
ABOUT INCREMENTAL OPPORTUNITIES
TO SUPPORT BIODIVERSITY, TO
SUPPORT QUALITY OVER QUANTITY.
THIS HAS COME UP AT THE TABLE
HERE BEFORE DELVING INTO THE
LAND VERSUS OTHER NATURAL
FEATURES.
BUT I JUST WANT TO SET THAT
CONTEXT ABOUT I THINK SOME
OF THE CONVERSATIONS HAPPENING
AROUND THESE THESE ASPECTS AND
THIS IS A COMMUNITY THAT REALLY
CARES ABOUT NATURAL RESOURCES
RIGHTFULLY SO.
AND SO I THINK THAT IS HARD
MIGHT BE HARD TO HEAR FOR
SOMEBODY THAT WE ARE NOT
CONTINUALLY MOVING FORWARD IN
THIS REGARD OR MAYBE NOT MOVING
FORWARD AS STRIDENTLY NOW AS WE
WERE OVER THE LAST X DECADES.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE DON'T
HAVE A VERY ROBUST NATURAL
FEATURES PROTECTION FRAMEWORK
RIGHT NOW.
>> I AM JUST A LITTLE CONTEXT
IF I COULD ABOUT TEN POINT ONE
THAT'S WHAT IT'S TRYING TO GET
AT.
IT'S SAYING TO PROTECT AND
ENHANCE AREAS WITH ECOLOGICAL
BENEFIT AND THAT CAME FROM A
FOCUS GROUP THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT NATURAL FEATURES WITH
THEM WERE THEY ALSO SAID LIKE
NOT EVERY TREE IS EQUAL, SOME
ARE INVASIVE, SOME ARE DEAD .
>> WE WANT TO PROTECT AREAS
LIKE THE WAY THAT YOU PUT IT.
>> COMMISSIONER NORTON, LARGER
AREAS OF NATURAL FEATURES LIKE
LAWNS ARE NOT OUR PRIORITY.
IT'S THESE TRACTS OF LAND THAT
HAVE ECOLOGICAL BENEFIT AND
BIODIVERSITY.
SO IF THAT'S NOT CLEAR, WE CAN
WORK ON THAT.
BUT BECAUSE I WAS A PART
OF THOSE FOCUS GROUPS I SAW
THAT CONNECTION AND I'M HEARING
YOU ALL BRING THAT UP AS A
CONCERN.
THAT'S WHAT THAT'S TRYING TO
GET AT.
SO I WASN'T I WASN'T SO
TROUBLED WITH THE LANGUAGE AND
THE GOAL ITSELF.
>> I WAS TROUBLED THAT KIND
OF CAME OUT OF THE BLUE AND
IT'S PRETTY ABSTRACT AND THE
RATIONALE AND SO THERE'S A
WHOLE LOT OF BACKGROUND THAT
COULD BE PROVIDED IN THE
BACKGROUND TO EXPLAIN WHAT YOU
JUST EXPLAINED.
>> OK, THAT WOULD WHAT WOULD I
THINK ALLEVIATE SOME OF THE
CONCERNS THAT THIS PLAN IS
CALLING FOR PAVING OVER THE
ENTIRE CITY BANABA AND TURNING
IT INTO CONCRETE?
NO, THERE'S A ROBUST PROTECTION
PLAN IN PLACE.
IT'S WORKING.
YEAH, THERE'S SOME DEBATE ABOUT
WHETHER IT COULD BE STRONGER OR
NOT BUT WE'RE NOT STARTING FROM
SCRATCH AND WE'RE NOT PROPOSING
TO PAVE OVER THE CITY AND YOU
DON'T GET THAT FROM THE WHAT'S
BEING EXPLAINED IN THE
RATIONALE RIGHT.
>> THAT'S COMPLETELY MISSING
THE OTHER OK, UM I JUST UH NOW
I'M GOING TO FORGET WHAT I
WANTED TO SAY BUT I DO THINK
THAT THERE'S A COUPLE
DIFFERENCES.
SO THERE'S THERE'S HOW PEOPLE
PERCEIVE THE TREES AND I THINK
THINGS LIKE STREET TREES ARE A
HUGE PART OF HOW PEOPLE
PERCEIVE TREE GOODNESS IN THE
CITY.
AND I THINK IF WE COULD AND AS
A PEDESTRIAN I KNOW I MUCH
PREFER TO WALK ON A STREET THAT
HAS TREES RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND SO IF THERE'S A WAY OF SORT
OF INCREASING YOU KNOW AND
THERE HAVE BEEN PLACES WHERE WE
HAVE REMOVED EXTENSIONS AND
THINGS FOR OTHER AMENITIES
BECAUSE THAT'S A IT'S A SPOT
THAT HAS A LOT OF WE WANT A LOT
OF THINGS FOR THE SIDES OF OUR
ROADS OR THE SIDES OF OUR
SIDEWALKS WHICHEVER.
>> UM BUT I THINK LIKE
ENHANCING TREE PRESERVATION AND
WE DO HAVE THE ELIZABETH FUND
BUT IT TURNS OUT IT'S NOT
ACTUALLY AS AS ROBUST OR USABLE
AS BECAUSE IT'S ALL IN LIKE
BONDS OR SOMETHING THAT AND SO
IT'S NOT MAYBE AS BIG RESOURCE
AS WE'VE ALL BEEN THINKING OVER
THE YEARS BUT BUT BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW YOUR NEIGHBOR CAN CUT DOWN
ALL THEIR TREES AND WE JUST HAD
TO TAKE DOWN A VERY LARGE TREE
NEXT TO OUR HOUSE AND IT WAS
TERRIBLE BUT LIKE NOBODY CAME
AFTER US, YOU KNOW, LIKE I MEAN
NOW WE HAVE IN OUR DEFENSE WE
PLANTED A LOT MORE TO BUT LIKE
RIGHT NOW THERE IS NO
PROTECTION FOR TREES ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY, PRIVATE PROPERTY,
LANDMARK TREES DON'T HAVE TO
THAT DOESN'T APPLY TO PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
>> SO AND BUILDINGS LARGE SO IT
DOESN'T APPLY A SMALL OR IT
DOESN'T THIS RIGHT SMALL SCALE
DEVELOPMENT OR YOUR NEIGHBORS
LIKE IF IT'S AN INDIVIDUAL
HOMEOWNER YOU CAN CUT DOWN
WHATEVER TREES YOU WANT TO CUT
DOWN AND YOU CAN MILL THEM.
THERE'S ACTUALLY A PROGRAM THAT
DOES THAT I LIVE IN IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH A LOT OLD
WALNUTS AND IT IS COST
EFFECTIVE TO HAVE THE MILL IF
YOU TAKE THEM DOWN THAT'S NOT
OUR TREE BUT JUST FOR RIGHT BUT
ALSO A APARTMENT LARGER SCALE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS BUILT
FAIRLY CLOSE TO THE PROPERTY
LINE CAN ALSO INCLUDE A LOT
OF TREES I MEAN THE HOOVER AND
GREEN PROPERTY AND I ACTUALLY
TOOK A PICTURE AS I WALKED
RIGHT NOW HAS ALL THEIR NATIVE
TREES OUT.
THEY'RE ALL BLOOMING.
IT'S GORGEOUS AND THERE'S LIKE
LITERALLY 150 OF THEM.
>> I DON'T KNOW THEY HAD TO
PACK IN A LOT OF TREES ON THAT
SITE.
>> AND SO I ALSO THINK THAT
THIS IS AGAIN ONE OF THOSE
THINGS OF JUST BECAUSE THERE'S
A BUILDING THERE MOST OF THE
TIME PEOPLE WANT AMENITY TREES.
THEY WANT YOU KNOW, LIKE IF WE
BUILD ENOUGH PEOPLE WILL WANT
THE THINGS THAT PEOPLE IN THIS
CITY WANT TO LIVE IN AND IT'S
NOT ONLY GOING TO BE DENUDED
AREAS, THEY'RE GOING TO WANT
PICKLEBALL, COURTS AND TREES
AND THINGS FOR THEIR RESIDENTS.
SO I THINK IT'S NOT IT IS ALL
OF THESE THINGS I MEAN I THINK
WE'RE GOING TO GET BITS AND
PIECES OF THERE'S GOING TO BE
SOME MORE STREET TREES.
THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME FEWER
AMENITY TREES.
>> THERE'S GOING TO BE LIKE AND
OUR TREE CANOPY IS EVER
EVOLVING.
>> I MEAN IT COMES IN IT GOES
AND AND THOSE BIG OLD TREES IN
THE MIDDLE OF A NEIGHBORHOOD IF
THEY FALL ON A HOUSE, PEOPLE
AREN'T GOING TO LIKE THEM QUITE
AS MUCH.
SO I THINK I THINK WE REALLY
NEED THAT.
>> I THINK IT'S NOT AN EASY ONE
ANSWER TO TREES.
IT'S NOT DON'T BUILD ANYTHING.
>> IT'S NOT IT'S IT'S GOING TO
BE A MANY FACTORS THING TO KEEP
TREES AND WE KNOW WE WANT TO
KEEP TREES ECOLOGICAL SPACES
BUT IT'S NOT JUST GOING TO BE
THIS OR THAT.
>> DO YOU THINK YOU HAVE WHAT
YOU NEED?
MY SUMMARY HERE IS TO BEEF UP
THE RATIONALE.
EXPLAIN A BIT MORE ABOUT OUR
EXISTING PROGRAMS AND AND
POLICIES.
LOOK AT THE URBAN FORESTRY PLAN
LAWN DOESN'T COUNT IS GREEN
MAKING THAT CLEAR WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT?
>> UM, DOES THAT SOUND LIKE I
MEAN THE MAIN TAKEAWAY IS LIKE
BEEF UP THE RATIONALE AND TALK
ABOUT OUR CURRENT ACTIVITIES.
>> YEAH.
ACTIVITIES THAT I THINK MAYBE
FOR YOU, MR. LEONARD, IF IT
COULD SIT IN SOME NOTES THAT
MIGHT GO ON OUR WORK PLAN POST
COMP PLAN WHICH IS TO TAKE A
LOOK AT ARE THERE THINGS THAT
WE COULD DO TO IMPROVE, UM, THE
MAINTENANCE OF THE TREE CANOPY
ON SMALLER LOTS SINCE I DIDN'T
REALIZE THERE WAS YOU MADE A
DISTINCTION AND SMALLER
DEVELOPMENT OFTEN DOESN'T COME
HERE TO THE TABLE.
>> IT'S YOUR DISCRETION SO OR
EXCUSE ME THE PLANNING UH,
THERE'S NO DEPARTMENTS UH NO
DISCRETION.
THAT'S NO DISCRETION.
SO WE DON'T REQUIRE A SITE PLAN
REVIEW FOR OF ALL YEAH.
>> AND AGAIN THAT'S I THINK
WHAT WE'RE RUNNING INTO IS AN
INTERSEX IN BETWEEN THE THE
PUBLIC'S PERCEPTION AND AN
EDUCATIONAL SORT
OF INTERSECTION ABOUT HOW
EVERYTHING WORKS BECAUSE I
THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY A
PLAN COMES HERE AND THEN WE
APPROVE IT AND THEN ALL THE
TREES GO AWAY.
BUT AS YOU NOTED BECAUSE I WAS
THINKING ABOUT IT THROUGH THE
COMMERCIAL AND I WAS LIKE OH WE
DO SO MUCH WORK ON TREES AND I
FEEL LIKE, YOU KNOW, EVEN WHAT
WAS IT SEVEN ELEVEN FOR US WITH
THE OAK GROVE OR IF I GOT THE
NUMBERS WRONG BECAUSE IT'S LIKE
SEVEN ELEVEN TWELVE AND OUR
CHURCH OR WHATEVER BUT SEVEN
TWENTY ONE FOREST IN OAK GROVE
I KNOW WE HAD A LONG
CONVERSATION ABOUT HOW WE COULD
PROTECT THAT NATURAL FEATURE
THAT IS LIKE INSIDE
THE URBAN
CANOPY.
SO ANYTHING WE COULD DO TO HELP
THE PUBLIC KNOW THAT WE DO TAKE
THESE THINGS SERIOUSLY AND THE
CITY IS WORKING EARNESTLY IN
THIS DIRECTION I THINK WOULD BE
GREAT.
CAN WE MOVE ON TO POINT ELEVEN?
>> JUST JUST I JUST WANT TO
DRIVE TWO POINTS.
I THINK WHAT YOU SAID ABOUT WE
HAVE ROBUST PROTECTIONS AND
WE'RE NOT GOING TO ERODE THEM
AND THEY'RE IN OUR ORDINANCE
THAT NEEDS TO BE REALLY SAID
CLEARLY.
SO ON THE TAPE AND ON THE TAPE
WHAT SAID ABOUT THE GREENBELT
AND WHAT THE GREENBELT
PHILOSOPHY IS AND SO BECAUSE
OUR SYSTEM FOR PROTECTING
NATURAL FEATURES HAS A SYNERGY
BETWEEN THE GREENBELT AND THE
FACT THAT NOW WE ARE BUILDING
HEIGHT BUT ALSO THE FACT THAT
DESPITE YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT
LEAVING IT TO OK, WE'VE GOT OUR
GREEN STUFF OUTSIDE THE CITY
ONLY NOW WE REALLY WORK HARD TO
MITIGATE RISK INSIDE.
AND SO I THINK THE HOLISTIC
SENSE OF WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE
IS GREAT AND WE NEED TO CONVEY
THAT.
CAN I SAY SOMETHING ABOUT THE
BLUE BOX REALLY QUICKLY?
I DON'T KNOW.
WHAT DID YOU SAY WE'RE
ELIMINATING ALL OF THE BOXES?
NO, NOT NECESSARILY.
CAN WE MAKE SURE THOUGH THAT
THEY ARE CONCISE SENT LIKE THIS
ONE I JUST SAID LIKE NODE WHICH
FEELS WEIRD LIKE THE ONE IN THE
NEXT PAGE HAS A SUBHEADING THAT
I THINK THAT THERE NEEDS TO BE
CONSISTENCY IN HOW THE BOXES
ARE PRESENTED WITHIN THIS PLAN
.
JUST SORT OF A CRITICISM I HAVE
MORE BROADLY ABOUT A LOT OF THE
LITTLE BOXES IN THIS PLANNER.
>> SO GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE
MATTERS A NEW HEADACHE IN THAT
PIECE THAT WE IT'S BETTER UNDER
TEN I MEAN I GUESS IT'S A
FORMATTING THING BUT WE DON'T
REALLY TALK ABOUT IT UNTIL TEN
TOO.
I WAS LIKE WHERE DO WE EVEN SAY
IT?
SO I MEAN IF WE IF WE WERE
KEEPING THE BOXES I THINK WE
COULD INTEGRATE IT INTO TEN
POINT TWO BUT WE ARE KEEPING
THE BOXES.
>> YEAH.
>> ARE WE JUST BEING THE GREEN
BOX WHEREAS I SUGGESTED THAT
THAT WAS MY SUGGESTION WITH THE
GUY THEY'RE DOING LIKE A OF THE
TREES LIKE WE CAN TAKE THAT
THERE'S ONE POINT FOUR MILLION
TREES WE PLANT MORE AND THEY'RE
SAPLINGS JUST SO THAT PEOPLE
YEAH.
JUST SO THAT PEOPLE KNOW THAT
THE CITY ACTUALLY HAS
INVESTMENT HERE AND EVEN IF THE
DENHA FRONT DOESN'T PRODUCE
CASH, IT IS SOMETHING THAT CAN
BE LEVERAGED AND THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR SEEMS TO EVERY
BUDGET YEAR COME UP WITH A
MILLION DOLLARS TO GIVE TO
KELSO TO REALLOCATE.
>> SO THERE YOU GO OVER FIVE
THOUSAND STREET TREES ADDED
BETWEEN 2009 AND 2020, BY THE
WAY.
>> YES, THAT'S A PERFECT SORT
OF NOTE.
WELL, AND IF THERE'S A WAY FOR
PEOPLE IF PEOPLE CAN REQUEST A
STREET TREE OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT BE EVEN BETTER ANYTHING
ELSE ON THESE TWO PAGES?
>> NO, BECAUSE I THINK THE NEXT
ONE IS THE LAST ONE.
>> I KNOW WE HAVE A TWELVE I'VE
BEEN TRYING OK OK SO GO ELEVEN.
UM OK THIS WAS MORE ABOUT
DEVELOPMENT I BELIEVE.
>> YEAH.
UM LET'S SEE UM LET'S SEE SO
SOME OF THE COMMENTS WE HAVE
HERE ARE ABOUT SO I GROUPED
SOME OF THESE UNDER DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS UM DO PEOPLE THAT I
PRESENTED THESE WANT TO SPEAK
TO THEM LIKE THERE'S RIGID
RULES AND APPROVALS AND
SKEPTICAL THE CITY'S SKEPTICAL
OF NEWER PRODUCTS AND UH THAT
WAS ME BEING SNARKY AGAIN UM
IT'S A CHIP ON MY SHOULDER
ABOUT BUT YOU THIS IS BACK TO
THE GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE AND I
WAS THINKING SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
THIS POROUS PAVEMENT AND WE CAN
IGNORE THAT.
>> BUT PAGE NINETEEN NINETY ONE
WHAT ABOUT OVERALL INCENTIVES
AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESS IS ALSO
MY COMMENT SO YOU'D LIKE TO SEE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF INCENTIVES
LISTED HERE OR HAVE IT WRITTEN
OUT ABOUT THAT.
WE'D LIKE TO PURSUE INCENTIVES.
I DON'T KNOW DO WE.
I SAYS INCENTIVIZE ZERO
EMISSION CAN WE INCENTIVIZE ARE
WE ALLOWED.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE'RE ALLOWED TO
DO.
WE'RE NOT ALLOWED TO REQUIRE
THAT'S THAT'S ALL WE CAN DO.
>> SO SO THIS WOULD WORK FOR A
DEVELOPER TOO.
>> YES.
THE ELEVEN'S COMING TO THE
TABLE AND THEY WOULD THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING SOME I
DON'T KNOW BONUS THAT MIGHT
EMERGE THAT WE GOT RID BONUSES
AND EXPEDITED PERMITTING OR IT
WOULD THEY WOULD REFERENCE THE
COMP PLAN AND SAY YOUR PLAN
SAYS THAT IF WE BROUGHT YOU
INNOVATIVE ENERGY SOLUTION WE
MIGHT GET SEVEN PERCENT MORE
FAADE BUT WE DON'T REGULATE ARE
IN THE DOWNTOWN OR YOU KNOW,
I'M JUST TRYING TO LIKE SORT
OF SEE HOW THIS WOULD WORK VISA
THE DEVELOPMENT THAT COMES TO
THE TABLE BECAUSE PEOPLE COME
AND SAY MY PROJECT FITS
PERFECTLY IN YOUR COMP PLAN FOR
THIS MAP IN THIS LAND USE AND
SO THAT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
THINKING OF .
>> SO YEAH, THIS WOULD BE THE
PLAN SAYING WE SHOULD CONTINUE
TO DO THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO AS WE'VE DONE IT THROUGH
ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL IN THE DOWNTOWN, IF
YOU MET MINIMUM LEAGUE POINTS
NOW WE PROVIDE A HEIGHT BONUS
TO A PROJECT AND IF YOU IF IT'S
FULLY ELECTRIC, RIGHT.
SO THIS IS A POLICY STATEMENT.
DO WE WANT TO CONTINUE THOSE
THINGS AND OR EXPAND THEM?
>> SURE.
YES AND YEAH.
AND SO WE'RE JUST SEEDING IT
HERE BUT IT'LL ACTUALLY
MANIFESTED ITSELF IN THE UDC
WHEN WE GO TO BUILD THE
REGULATIONS BASED ON THIS.
>> CORRECT.
OK, SO I'M CURIOUS SO WE CAN
LEAVE THE CONSULTANCY IN THEIR
INCENTIVES FROM OTHER CITIES
THAT THEY'VE SEEN THAT WE MIGHT
NOT HAVE BEEN CONSIDERED.
DOES IT MAKE SENSE MIGHT NOT
HAVE CONSIDERED WHATEVER DOES
IT MAKE SENSE TO INCLUDE
ANYTHING LIKE THAT?
THAT'S A PRECEDENT IF WE'RE
GOING TO KEEP PRESIDENT BOXES.
>> YES, COOL.
WE LOOKED AT THEIR THOSE
INCENTIVES ARE HARD TO GET,
RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
THIS TABLE HAS HAD SOME
EXPERIENCE WITH THAT AS IT
RELATES TO DOWNTOWN HOUSING.
YEP.
RIGHT.
AND I WOULD PUT MYSELF IN THAT
CATEGORY AS WELL.
>> THERE ARE THERE ARE EXAMPLES
.
ONE THAT'S COMING TO MIND IS
PITTSBURGH GIVES SORT OF A MENU
OF OPTIONS AND YOU GET SO MANY
POINTS AND ONCE YOU GET SO MANY
POINTS YOU GET AN EXTRA FLOOR,
YOU GET BONUS OR WHAT HAVE YOU.
>> SO BUT I I THINK TRY TRYING
TO GET MORE MUCH MORE SPECIFIC.
I DON'T THINK THE IN PLACE TO
DO IT.
I THINK THE PLAN IS THE PLACE
TO SAY IT IS THAT IS TOOL WE
WANT TO DO THAT.
WE WANT TO WORK ON THOSE
BALANCES.
IT MIGHT BE TO LOOK AT OTHER
EXAMPLES OF OTHER COMMUNITIES
BUT I WOULD I WOULD LOOK MORE
TOWARDS THE MECHANISMS THAN THE
DETAILS BECAUSE EVEN IN THE
CONTEXT OF MARKETPLACE TO
MARKETPLACE THAT MIGHT NOT BE
THE SAME EXACT MANIFESTATION
OF HOW MUCH YOU GIVE FOR HOW
MUCH YOU GET COULD HAVE JUST
SAID NO.
>> WELL IT'S NOT A THAT MAKES
SENSE.
>> THANKS.
SO ARE THE REST OF THESE
COMMENTS POSSIBLY THINGS THAT
YOU COULD CONSIDER AS YOU WORK
THROUGH BECAUSE WE REALLY DO
HAVE SOME MEAT COMING UP AND
IT'S NINE ALREADY HERE.
>> IT'S BEDTIME.
>> SO YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
LAST FOUR HERE PAGE NINETY
THREE NINETY TWO TO CONSIDER
OFFLINE.
OK, BUT DON'T BRING UP
SUBDISTRICTS BEFORE WE GET TO
CHAPTER FIVE.
>> WE'VE NEVER TALKED ABOUT IT
BEFORE ON STRATEGY.
>> WELL BECAUSE I DID NOT READ
AHEAD AND I DID NOT KNOW WHAT A
PUB DISTRICT IS WHEN I READ ON
OK DO OK SO WE'RE READY TO GO
TO CHAPTER FIVE.
>> YES OK LET ME MOVE.
>> OK SO THAT'S A NEW DOCUMENT
THAT YOU GAVE.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
YES.
OK SO PAGE NINETY SIX DO YOU
MIND IF I JUMP IN HERE.
YEAH SO I MADE A COMMENT ABOUT
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT STRIKE.
>> I ACTUALLY THINK THAT WHEN I
LOOKED AT IT AGAIN WHAT ARE WE
LOOKING TO PROTECT SECTION
MIGHT BE EASIER TO JUST
ELIMINATE AND THE REASON I
THINK IT MIGHT BE GOOD TO DO
THAT WE HAVE ALL OF THIS WORK
THAT WE'RE DOING IN ALL OF THE
PAGES THAT PRECEDE THIS SECTION
TALKING ABOUT THE VALUES AND
THE THINGS THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
PROTECT AND I THINK IT'D BE
VERY CHALLENGING DRAFTING
EXERCISE TO TRY TO RESTATE OR
SUMMARIZE THAT HERE AND RATHER
THAN TAKE THAT ON LIKE ONE
EXAMPLE OF A PASSAGE THAT I SAW
WHEN I LOOKED AT IT, WE SAY UP
ON PAGE TWENTY ONE WE HAVE A
DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW LEGACY
CITY POLICY IS DISPLACED AND
UNDERSERVED VULNERABLE
COMMUNITIES AND THERE'S A CALL
TO ACTION TO FOCUS ON
REPARATIVE ACTIONS THAT PROMOTE
EQUITY ACROSS ALL NEIGHBORHOODS
AND A CAUTION AGAINST
PRESERVING THE STATUS QUO AND
SOLELY PROTECTING EXISTING
CHARACTER AND NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT.
I THINK THAT'S GREAT.
IT'S GREAT LANGUAGE BUT THAT
DOESN'T REALLY COME THROUGH
HERE.
AND WHEN WE TALK ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE PROTECTING BECAUSE ALL
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT PROTECTING
HERE IS THE STATUS QUO RATHER
THAN TRY TO RECONCILE ALL THAT
AND MAKE IT WORK AND IN A
RESTATED FORMAT I JUST WOULD
PROPOSE ELIMINATING THAT LIST
SO I DIDN'T SEND IN COMMENT.
>> I WILL TO SEE YOU HAVE THEM
BUT I YEAH I SAW THIS MORE LIKE
WE'RE REQUIRED TO PROTECT THOSE
RIGHT.
LIKE WE'RE NOT REALLY LOOKING
TO PROTECT THEM.
SO I WOULD AGREE WITH ALSO
STRIKING IT BUT AT THE SAME
TIME I THINK POINTING OUT
SOMEWHERE AS I THINK WE'VE
HEARD I DON'T REMEMBER WHERE
WE'VE HEARD FROM MAYBE PUBLIC
COMMENT MAYBE WE JUST TALKED
ABOUT IT.
BUT LIKE A LOT OF THESE AREAS
DO ALREADY HAVE A GREAT DEAL
OF DENSITY CLOSER TOGETHER THAN
SOME OF THE LIKE LATER
DEVELOPED
WE COULD HAVE MORE
LIKE LIKE THIS WITH THE
DISTANCES BETWEEN HOMES, ET
CETERA, LIKE I DO THINK THE
PLAN IN GENERAL NEEDS A LITTLE
MORE TALK ABOUT HISTORIC
DISTRICTS BUT I DON'T LIKE IT
HERE IF THAT NEEDS TO BE CLEAR
WHICH ITEMS YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT STRIKING, JUST START TO
SEE THE WHOLE LIST BECAUSE I
THINK IT'D BE A VERY HARD
DRAFTING EXERCISE TO THERE'S A
LOT OF THINGS WE'RE TRYING TO
PROTECT AND THEY'RE ALL
COVERED IN THESE PAGES THAT
WE'RE WORKING SO HARD TO MAKE
RIGHT.
>> AND I THINK IT'S AGAIN VERY
CHALLENGING TO TRY TO RESTATE
THEM HERE JUST LIKE A SORT
OF INCOMPLETE CALLOUT.
>> IT'S IT'S ALWAYS GOING TO BE
INCOMPLETE AND WE'RE GOING TO
STRUGGLE WITH THE WORDING AND I
JUST FEEL LIKE IF WE DON'T
HANDLE IT WE
SHOULD HANDLE THEM
WELL IN ALL THE PAGES THAT
PRECEDE THE SECTION AND IF WE
DON'T WE SHOULD WORK ON THAT.
>> BUT HERE ISN'T THE PLACE TO
DO IT.
THAT'S JUST MY SENSE.
>> OR COULD WE SAY SOMETHING
LIKE THESE ARE CONSIDERATIONS
WE NEED WE WILL BE MAKING?
I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN I GET THE IMPRESSION
LIKE THIS LIKE WE CAN'T IGNORE
THAT THERE ARE PARKS AND I MEAN
I GUESS WE COULD IGNORE BUT I
DON'T THINK WE WANT TO IGNORE
THAT THERE ARE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS AND THERE'S THE
UNIVERSITY AND THERE'S THE LIKE
AND I'M NOT SURE IF WE DON'T
SAY ANYTHING ABOUT IT IF PEOPLE
WILL BE REALLY WILL FIXATE ON
THE LACK OF THOSE THINGS.
>> BUT I SEE YOUR POINT THAT
LIKE CALLING THEM OUT HERE IN
THIS WAY IS A LITTLE LIKE WE WE
DON'T HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
SAVING THESE.
THEY'RE JUST GOING TO BUT THERE
ARE THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT BUT IN THE CONTEXT
LIKE WE HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
FLOOD ZONES AND WE HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT I'M SURE I CAN COME
UP WITH A LIST LIKE THE 30
THINGS WE SAY AND ALL OF THE
PAGES ABOVE US OF THINGS THAT
WE THINK THAT WE NEED TO
PROTECT AND I THINK WE DO IT
WITH MORE NUANCE AND MORE
ACCURATELY AND I'M WORRIED THAT
HERE WE'RE OVERWEIGHTING ON
THREE THINGS AND I DON'T WANT
TO MAKE IT 20 THINGS AND I
DON'T THINK WE'RE HANDLING I
DON'T THINK WE PRIORITIZE THE
RIGHT THREE THINGS HERE.
SO I THAT'S I JUST DIDN'T WANT
TO GIVE STAFF AND THE
CONSULTANT THE TERRIBLE
DRAFTING PROJECT AND I JUST I
DON'T THINK WE'VE EITHER DONE
IT RIGHT BEFORE WE GET HERE OR
WE HAVE IT IN WHICH CASE WE
SHOULD GO BACK AND LOOK AT
THOSE PAGES AGAIN.
>> WHAT CAN I ASK FOR EXAMPLE,
DO YOU THINK IT'S MISSING FROM
WHAT WE COULD PROTECT?
>> SO THE POINT THAT I MADE
ABOUT HOW LEGACY CITY WE HAVE
WE HAVE COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN WELL SERVED BY
EXISTING LAND USE AND THAT A
HYPER FOCUS ON PRESERVING THE
STATUS QUO AND PROTECTING
PROTECTING EXISTING CHARACTER
OUR NATURAL ENVIRONMENT CHANGES
THESE COMMUNITIES AND HERE WELL
HERE WE'VE KIND OF LISTED
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN HISTORICALLY THE
TOOLS OF SOME OF THAT THAT
HARM.
SO IT IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE
WE'RE TACKLING THE LIST IN AN
APPROPRIATE WAY AND I THINK WE
DO IT WE DO IT WELL IN THE
PRECEDING PAGES.
THAT'S WHAT I'M GETTING.
>> DO YOU ALL WANT TO VOTE ON
THIS OR IS THERE A CONSENSUS?
I THINK THERE'S CONSENSUS.
>> IS THERE?
>> YEAH, I MEAN I THINK SO.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE'S
OBJECTING.
I JUST FRUSTRATED WITH THE CITY
FULLY DEVELOPED.
>> RIGHT NOW MADE YOU'VE MADE
THAT POINT LAST WEEK TO INTO I
WASN'T THINKING OF STARTING THE
WHOLE THING BUT I'M CONVINCED
THAT ACTUALLY THE REST OF THE
PLAN DOES A GOOD JOB
OF DESCRIBING ALL THE THINGS
THAT WE CAN HAVE WHAT IT IS I
MEAN WE CAN VOTE IF YOU WANT TO
DO SO.
>> I MEAN TEXAS.
YEAH, IT JUST TAKES A SECOND
FOR US TO VOTE.
>> I THINK THERE'S CONSENSUS
THOUGH ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF TRYING TO STRIKE THE WHOLE
CONCEPT AND HELPING TO PROTECT
YEAH.
OH JUST THE COLUMN OR THE WHOLE
SPREAD JUST THE COWLS.
OH WHAT ARE WE LOOKING FOR.
OK THEN ALSO THE MAP BECAUSE I
YEAH.
>> THINK THE MAP WOULD GO AWAY
TOO BECAUSE MAPS ARE RELEVANT.
YEAH YEAH.
AND IT'S COVERED ELSEWHERE.
IT IS COME BACK TO BUILDING THE
RATIONALE THAT WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT FOR NATURAL FEATURES
MIGHT BE BETTER TO PULL SOME
OF THAT LANGUAGE ON THAT MAP
INTO THAT SECTION FOR EXAMPLE.
>> RIGHT.
OR EXISTING BUILT
INFRASTRUCTURE OR LET THE
NUANCE OF THE DISCUSSION.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY MY CONCERN.
>> LET'S DO THE VOTE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF STRIKING IT.
I OK, IT'S UNANIMOUS THAT WE
DIDN'T TAKE THE MOTION BUT THAT
WAS A STRAW POLL.
HOPEFULLY THAT STILL WORKS FOR
THE OTHER MEMBERS TO THEY ARE
THAT WAS GOING TO BE MY POINT.
I DIDN'T HAVE ANY NOTES SENT IN
FOR 98 AND 99.
>> GREAT.
LET'S GO TO ONE HUNDRED BUT
WELL I DON'T KNOW IF THAT MEANS
THERE AREN'T TEN I HAVE WHAT
THE THE FIRST THE FIRST
SENTENCE ON THAT PAGE ACTUALLY
SO A MAJOR OBJECTIVE EMERGING
FROM THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> SO LIKE THIS ONE IS ARE THEY
TALKING ABOUT THE OUTREACH THAT
EMERGED BECAUSE IT'S NOT REALLY
EMERGING FROM A PLAN THAT
THERE'S STILL WE'RE STILL GOING
THROUGH?
RIGHT.
LIKE I FEEL LIKE THEY'RE
TELLING US WHAT THEY WANT TO
TELL US RATHER THAN TELLING US
WHAT THEY HEARD.
SO I JUST DIDN'T KNOW IF WE
SHOULD ADD THE WORD OUTREACH IF
THAT IS WHAT WAS THE INTENTION
SO INSTEAD OF SAYING THIS IS A
MAJOR OBJECTIVE REFRAMING IT AS
LIKE WHAT WE'VE HEARD WELL, I
THINK THE WAY I READ IT WAS THE
MOVING TOGETHER PLAN AND THE A
TWO ZERO PLAN PLUS THE PLAN
TOGETHER SHARE A SIMILAR
OBJECTIVE OF SHIFTING AWAY FROM
A CAR DEPENDENT EX JUST A STEP
WE'VE ALREADY ESTABLISHED
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT LIKE
WE HAVE OBJECTIVES IN THIS
PRESENT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> RIGHT.
THIS IS A LEADER ONE.
>> YES, BUT WE REMOVED THOSE
OBJECTIVES.
>> WE REMOVE SOME BUT NOT ALL
THAT WE DIDN'T DO WELL WE
LANGUAGE THE BULL'S EYE, THAT
KIND OF THING.
BUT I BUT MAYBE WE IT'S NOT
OBJECTIVE MIGHT NOT BE THE
RIGHT WORD ANYMORE.
>> OK, YEAH.
MAYBE I WAS HAVING TROUBLES
ONCE BEFORE THAT BUT I THINK IF
IT'S IF IT'S THE COLLECTION
OF THOSE THREE PLANS I THINK IT
IS ACCURATELY REFLECTING WITH
THOSE THREE PLANS OR SAYING OK
IF IT IS OUTREACH THAT IS BEING
MASKED AS AN OBJECTION OR
EXCUSE ME OBJECTIVE WE NEED
CLARIFICATION ON THAT BUT I
DON'T THINK IT'S I THINK IT'S
THE FORMER NOT THE LATTER.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT MAKES
MORE SENSE TO ME.
I THINK THAT MAYBE I'M STUCK ON
LIKE LIKE WHAT ARE THE DRIVERS
FOR CHANGE?
>> SHOULDN'T WE HAVE ALREADY
TALKS ABOUT THAT SO SO THERE IS
A BUILDING TO THEIR LAND USE SO
THEY'RE HAVING TO RE CONVINCE
YOU THAT THIS IS WHAT'S COMING
REMEMBER THAT THEY THEY DID
TELL US THE PLAN IS
INTENTIONALLY REPETITIVE
BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO JUST READ CHAPTER FIVE.
>> YES.
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT AFFECTS
THEIR PROPERTY.
YES.
BUT COMMISSIONER NORTON, YOU
WERE HEDGING ON SOMETHING.
>> WELL THAT'S WHAT THIS
CHAPTER TRYING TO DO IS TRYING
TO RECAPITULATE IN A REALLY
BRIEF WAY THE FRAMING TO
EXPLAIN WHY THE LAND USE MAP
LOOKS LIKE IT.
YES, WE JUST ZAPPED HALF
OF THAT BACKGROUND WHICH IS NOW
MAKING THINGS SHOULD WE ZAP THE
OTHER HALF BECAUSE NOW IT'S
NEAR HERE FILTERED BY ONLY
TALKING ABOUT THE DRIVERS
OF CHANGE AND NOT THE BALANCE
THAT WE'RE TRYING TO STRIKE
THROUGH THE PLAN.
>> BUT THEN THAT LEAVES JUMPING
RIGHT INTO THE LAND THIS MAP
WITHOUT REALLY EXPLAIN WHAT IS
THIS DOING?
>> SO IS IT POSSIBLE FOR THE
CONSULTANTS TO JUST GO BACK TO
WHAT IS BEFORE THIS AND JUST
LIKE RESTATE LIKE IN CHAPTER
TWO AND CHAPTER THREE AS
OPPOSED TO TRYING TO I LIKED
YOUR PHRASING RECAPITULATE THIS
THING IN A WHOLLY DIFFERENT WAY
BECAUSE THEY'RE JUST SORT
OF PULLING OUT WHAT THEY THINK
ARE THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS
BUT THEY COULD ACTUALLY DO A
SUMMARY.
SO HOW DO WE GET TO THIS LAND
USE MAP?
>> HERE'S HOW WE GOT HERE TWO,
THREE, FOUR AND THE DRIVERS FOR
CHANGE MAP ALSO REALLY THREW ME
OFF LIKE IT'S JUST TRANSIT THE
DDA BOUNDARY SOME U
OF INNOVATION DISTRICT THAT WAS
PROPOSED THAT I LIKE.
HOW IS THAT PLAYING A MAJOR
ROLE IN OUR PROPOSED CHANGES
LIKE ELIMINATING SINGLE FAMILY
USE WHAT WE ARE RECOMMENDING
ALSO TO A LONG BUS?
>> YEAH, BUT I CAN SEE LIKE WE
COULD ASK THEM WHAT WE'D LIKE
TO SEE HERE SO OR THEY COULD
JUST DO IT.
>> THIS IS JUST ME AS WE ARE
ITERATING RIGHT NOW THEY COULD
JUST DO A NARRATIVE
INTRODUCTION TO WHAT IS SAYS
WHAT ARE THE DRIVERS FOR
CHANGE.
DO YOU WANT IT BROKEN DOWN BY
CHAPTER?
>> KNOW WHAT I MEAN HERE IS IF
YOU WILL THIS IS AN OPINIONATED
DRIVER FOR THE CHANGE, RIGHT?
>> LIKE THEY PICKED OUT SOME
THINGS TO GET US HERE BUT THEY
COULD TELL A MORE HOLISTIC
STORY, RIGHT.
THAT THE CITY IS UNDERGOING AN
AMOUNT OF TRANSFORMATION AND
CHANGE.
WE HAVE SEEN CHANGING PATTERNS
IN HOW PEOPLE PROSTITUTE
FAMILIES AND THE THE DEFICITS
ON, UM, CAR DEPENDENCY, THE
EMPHASIS ON WALKABLE
COMMUNITIES.
RIGHT.
LIKE THERE IS A WAY TO TAKE A
NARRATIVE READ THAT SORT
OF ENCAPSULATES THE ANN ARBOR
FOR ALL AND THEN INTRODUCES HOW
THE LAND USE MAP IS GOING TO
SUPPORT THAT TERMS ABOUT I
COULD I COULD GRAB SOMETHING BY
THE END OF THE WEEK AND SEND IT
TO YOU BUT I CAN'T DO IT AT THE
TABLE RIGHT NOW.
>> THREE PARAGRAPHS TWO ON THE
SIDE UM IF YOU LOOK AT PAGE
NINETY SIX YOU GOT TEN
PARAGRAPHS OVER THAT TO ME I
THINK ARE KIND OF THE
DIRECTIONALLY THAT YOU'RE
SUGGESTING AND WE JUST HAVE
PULLED OUT A LITTLE BIT.
>> BUT WHAT THE BLUEBOX NO
WONDER LAND USE THE FUTURE LAND
USE THE FIRST THREE PARAGRAPHS
INTRODUCE THE LAND USE MAP
WITHOUT TRYING TO RESTATE
EVERYTHING THAT WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT AND OH JUST WHAT
PLANET FUTURE LAND USE MAP AND
SOME OF THE I THINK THERE'S I
THINK DRY WELL RIGHT YEAH
THERE'S A Y AND THERE'S SOME
HIGH LEVEL VALUE STATEMENTS IN
THERE AS WELL.
IT'S MORE OF AN INTRODUCTORY AS
OPPOSED TO GETTING BACK TO THE
WEEDS OF WHAT WE'VE JUST BEEN
TALKING ABOUT.
>> ARE WE TALKING THOUGH AM I
FOLLOWING CORRECTLY THAT THAT
THERE'S SOME SUGGESTION FOR
ELIMINATING THE MAP ON PAGE
THAT'S SHOWN RIGHT NOW ON THE
SCREEN PAGE NINETY NINE.
>> YES,
I WOULD STRONG I WOULD
VOTE AGAINST THAT BOOK COS I
THINK THAT THE FLIPPING BACK
PARTICULARLY BECAUSE OUR
TRANSITION ZONES WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE TRANSPORTATION WAS
SUPER HELPFUL TO ME AND I
CAUGHT A COUPLE OF COMMENTS
ABOUT PLACES WHERE I WANT
TRANSITION ZONES NOTED AND
DIDN'T CATCH THE ONE BEING LIKE
BUT BUT I FEEL LIKE IF THERE
ARE OTHER THINGS THAT ARE
SPATIALLY REALLY EXPLAINING WHY
OUR FUTURE LAND USE MAP IS AS
IT IS WHICH I FEEL FOR THOSE
TRANSITION ZONES, IT'S LINKED
TO THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN, I
THINK THAT THAT'S REALLY
HELPFUL TO HAVE RIGHT NEXT TO
EACH OTHER.
I THINK I DON'T LIKE THE TITLE.
>> YEAH.
AND I ALSO I'M A DRIVERS FOR
CHANGE LIKE THAT'S IT.
I'M TALKING ABOUT BUS LINES AND
THAT'S THAT'S ALL AND SOME LIKE
INTERVENTION DISTRICT LIKE I
WANT THAT GONE.
YEAH I'M GOING TO HARP ON THIS
AGAIN WITH THE UNIVERSITY
TRANSIT BECAUSE LIKE THEY HAVE
THE WHIZ-BANG AUTOMATED TRANSIT
LINE WHICH FRANKLY I DON'T
THINK IS EVER GOING TO GET
BUILT AND THEN AND ALSO THERE
ARE ALREADY LIKE MANY, MANY
BUSSES THAT GO THAT ROUTE.
IT'S NOT GOING B AND THEN THE
BLUE BOX THERE LIKE THE PLAN IS
AN ELEVATED AUTOMATIC TRANSIT
SYSTEM THAT'S GOING TO HAVE A
SIGNIFICANT IMPLICATIONS FOR
FUTURE LAND USE NOT ONLY WITHIN
THE UNIVERSITY BUT ACROSS THE
CITY AS WELL.
NO, IT'S NOT GOING TO HAVE
ANYTHING DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
THE BUSSES THAT THEY'RE RUNNING
NOW ALREADY HAVE.
AND I JUST FEEL LIKE THINGS
LIKE INCREASING STUDENT
ENROLLMENT IS GOING TO HAVE
MORE OF AN EFFECT ON LIKE WHEN
IT TALKS ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN PLANS LIKE YES, THE
WHATEVER IN THE ZONE THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
BUT LIKE I DON'T THE ELEVATED
AUTOMATED TRANSIT SYSTEM I
DON'T THINK WE SHOULD INCLUDE
THAT IN HERE.
THAT'S NOT LIKE I GET ACCUSED
OF NOT ALIGNING WITH THE MAIN
EMPLOYER AND LANDHOLDER IN THIS
CITY IF WE REMOVE THEIR PLANS
FROM OUR JUST LEAVE THEIR
PLANS.
>> BUT THE TRANS THE ELEVATED
TRANSIT IS LIKE WE ARE HERE BUS
RAPID TRANSIT THAT DOESN'T
EXIST YET EITHER.
WE'RE PLANNING FOR TWENTY FIFTY
SO I MEAN I'M OPEN TO YOUR
SUGGESTIONS AND WE CAN REFINE
THIS MAP BUT I DO WANT TO POINT
OUT THE PUBLIC KEEPS TELLING US
THAT WE DON'T HAVE A IMMERSING
OURSELVES LIKE A GOOD ENOUGH
RATIONALE FOR THINGS AND NOW
WE'RE REMOVING ALL OF THIS.
>> YEAH NO I THINK WE I'M SORRY
I THINK WE DO HAVE A GOOD
RATIONALE.
RIGHT.
THE WE HAVE NINETY FOUR
THOUSAND PERMANENT JOBS AND
EIGHTY THOUSAND COMMUTERS THAT
ARE COMING IN AND WE'RE TRYING
TO FIGURE HOW TO ACCOMMODATE
THAT YOU NO I HAVE A DIFFERENT
SUGGESTION BUT I'LL LET
COMMISSIONER WHETHER BE FINISH
YOUR POINT AND THEN I THINK I
CAN ENCAPSULATE EVERYTHING THAT
WE WANT AND GET US MOVING
AGAIN.
>> YEAH.
SO I THINK INCLUDING UNIVERSITY
IS IMPERATIVE WE HAVE TO I MEAN
IT'S THE THE BIG THE RIGHT THE
ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM.
>> I JUST THINK THAT THE
INNOVATION DISTRICT IS A BIG
DEAL.
>> I THINK INCREASING
ENROLLMENT AND IS A BIG DEAL.
>> I DON'T THINK THE FRICKIN
MONORAIL IS A BIG DEAL LIKE
LIKE I DON'T THINK THAT IS
ACTUALLY GOING TO DO AS MUCH
BECAUSE MOST OF THAT IS GOING
TO BE TO NORTH CAMPUS AND I
MEAN UNTIL THEY KNOW IT MIGHT
LONG RUN BUT LIKE THE
UNIVERSITY IS GOING TO RUN
BUSSES TO THOSE PLACES UNTIL
THE MONORAIL GETS DONE AND I
JUST I DON'T I I'D LOVE TO HEAR
THE REST OF THE COMMISSION WHAT
YOUR THOUGHTS ARE BUT I THINK
TO MICHELLE'S POINT THERE'S A
LOT OF ASPIRATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS ON THIS
MAP.
DO YOU WANT IT TO BE MORE OF A
REFLECTION OF WHAT WE HAVE NOW
OR ARE YOU SORT OF I GOING TO
CAPTURE I THINK I CAPTURE THAT
OR WHAT THE CITY HAS PLANNED IS
GOOD TO INCLUDE I THINK I THINK
I'M GOING TO DISAGREE A LITTLE
BIT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S THAT BIG
OF A DEAL.
YEAH, I DON'T EITHER.
I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT THEY'VE
BEEN TALKING I'VE BEEN YOU THEM
FOR TWENTY FIVE YEARS THERE
THERE'S BEEN TALK ABOUT KING
AND GONDOLAS AND ALL KINDS
OF STUFF BUT THIS IS THE MOST
CONCRETE IDEA I'VE SEEN
ACTUALLY GET DEVELOPED SINCE
I'VE BEEN HERE FOR TWENTY FIVE
YEARS.
SO I DO THINK THIS ACTUALLY HAS
SOME MORE TO IT THAN ANYTHING
ELSE I'VE SEEN THE UNIVERSITY
TALK ABOUT.
>> IT'S GOING TO SEE IT'S GOING
TO BE AN ENORMOUS PROBLEM THAT
THEY'RE FOR TRAFFIC AND LAND
USE ON GREEN AND PLYMOUTH ROAD
ACTUALLY HATE THIS A LOT.
I WOULD PREFER TO KEEP IT
BECAUSE I THINK ILLUSTRATES
LIKE IT JUST STOPS AND THEY'RE
GOING TO BUILD AN EIGHT SPACE
PARKING GARAGE OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT WHICH IS GOING TO
USUALLY AFFECT WHAT WE WANT TO
DO A LONG PLIMOTH BE A BIG
SOURCE OF DEBATE.
>> I WOULD KEEP IT JUST BECAUSE
IT'S A CREDIBLE THING THAT AND
IT'S THE FURTHEST THE
UNIVERSITY'S EVER DEVELOPED
THIS IDEA BEFORE.
>> I'D LIKE TO WATCH THAT
SIMPSONS EPISODE.
SO MY SUGGESTION IS LET'S GO TO
PAGE ONE SEVEN REALLY HAD TO
LEAVE THIS SHOW.
>> NO, NO, NO.
I'M EXCUSE ME ONE ZERO SIX ONE
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THEY ARE
DOING WHAT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
AND IF THEY COULD TAKE TRANSIT
OPEN SPACE, LAND USE AND AND
ONE OTHER MAP AND CHANGE THE
INTRODUCTORY PARAGRAPH AND PUT
THIS AT THE TOP LIKE REPLACING
PAGES NINETY SIX AND NINE D
NINETY SIX NINETY SEVEN NINETY
EIGHT NINETY NINE AND MOVE THAT
UP I THINK THAT IS A VERY GOOD
VISUAL OVERLAY IT KEEPS THE
TRANSPORTATION IT TALKS ABOUT
THE OPEN SPACE, THE CHALLENGE
FOR US IS WHERE CAN WE DENSIFY.
>> WE DON'T ACTUALLY HAVE
SPRAWLING LAND SO WE HAVE TO
DENSIFY BY GOING UP AND WE PUT
THAT MAP IN THERE AND THEN WE
CAN EVEN KEEP THERE WAS ONE MAP
THAT WE CAN KEEP THE NATURAL
FEATURES AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS
MAP THAT'S ON PAGE SEVENTY
FOUR.
>> SO YOU WOULD HAVE A LIKE
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO CHANGE
INVESTMENTS, NEED IT TO ACHIEVE
THE LAND USE BECAUSE I FEEL
LIKE THAT'S ACTUALLY COVERED IN
CHAPTER FOR CHANGE THE
INTRODUCTORY PARAGRAPH WHERE IT
SAYS THE FUTURE LAND USE SO
THEY'LL HAVE TO EXPAND THAT
THEY CAN TAKE THE THREE
PARAGRAPHS AND DO THIS AND THEN
PUT THOSE FOUR MAPS IN WITH THE
PARAGRAPHS AND THEN THAT IS A
NICE INTRODUCTION INTO THE LAND
USE GRAPHICS THAT WE SEE ON
PAGE ONE HUNDRED AND ONE ONE.
I'LL LET YOU ALL DISCUSS THAT.
I MEAN THE WAY THAT IT'S
CURRENTLY SET IS YES, WE COULD
COMBINE THEM IN THE WAY THAT
YOU SUGGESTED THIS BY SAYING
LIKE HOW ARE WE GOING TO
ACHIEVE OUR VISION?
AND I THINK WHAT WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT IS HOW DID WE GET
TO THIS VISION IF YOU THINK
THAT ACHIEVES BOTH OF THEM, I
THINK THEY'RE BOTH IMPORTANT
AND WE NEED TO REMEMBER THAT IN
A FEW YEARS FROM NOW IF
SOMETHING'S LISTED IN CHAPTER
FOUR, YOU MIGHT NOT RECALL LIKE
I THINK THEY'RE TRYING TO
CONDENSE THIS ALL HERE SO THAT
WHEN YOU HAVE TO MAKE FUTURE
DECISIONS IT'S ALL IN ONE
CONCISE AREA WHERE YOU CAN USE
FOOTNOTES TO SORT OF CAPTURE
THAT.
I THINK I THINK THAT CAPTURES
WHAT EVERYONE AT THE TABLE HAS
SAID AND IT'S ALREADY IN SO
WE'RE NOT ACTUALLY LIKE TRYING
TO REWRITE THINGS.
>> WE'RE JUST ORGANIZING IT
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENTLY AND THEN
PUTTING IT AS THE EXPLAINER AT
TOP SO THAT THAT WAS WHAT I WAS
THINKING AS I WAS LISTENING TO
EVERYBODY COULD TRY YEAH.
>> GO FOR THE FUTURE LAND USE
PLAN IS AN ATTEMPT TO DO TWO
THINGS AT OPERATIONALIZES ALL
OF THE GOALS AND STRATEGIES
THAT HAVE BEEN LAID OUT AND IT
FIXES THEM SPATIALLY.
>> THOSE ARE TEN DOLLAR WORDS
UM BUT IT'S TRYING TO MAKE
CONCRETE ALL OF THE GOALS AND
POLICIES INTO ACTUAL DISTRICTS
AND AND MORE FIND POLICIES AND
THEN IT TELLS US WHERE IN THE
MAP I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO
RECAPITULATE EVERYTHING THAT
CAME UP IN THE GOALS AND
POLICIES.
I THINK THE TWO PARAGRAPHS AT
THE EDGE OF PAGE TWENTY SIX IN
THE FIRST COLUMN KIND
OF EXPLAINING HERE'S WHAT THE
FUTURE PLAN DOES SETS THE
GROUNDWORK FOR WHERE HOW WE GOT
THERE AND EXPLAINS IT AND I
DON'T THINK WE NEED TO EITHER.
WE ALREADY ZAPPED WHAT ARE WE
LOOKING TO PROTECT.
I WOULD TO WHAT ARE THE DRIVERS
OF CHANGE FOR THE SAME REASON
IT'S IT COMES DOWN MUCH MORE
NUANCED DISCUSSION THAT CAME
ABOVE UM I THINK THE MAPS THAT
INFORM THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP
.
>> I'VE BEEN TRYING TO HONESTLY
FIGURE OUT WHERE DID THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP COME FROM BECAUSE
ESPECIALLY ALL OF THE COMMENTS
THAT WE'VE BEEN GETTING LIKE
THIS JUST ISN'T MAKING SENSE.
I THINK IT WAS INFORMED BY
THESE FUTURE TRANSIT SYSTEMS.
I THINK IT WAS INFORMED BY THE
OPEN SPACE AND IT WAS
DEFINITELY INFORMED BY THE
EXISTING NEWS IF WE'RE GOING TO
PUT THE MAPS THAT KIND COME
TOGETHER TO INFORM THE FUTURE
LEONIS MAP, THOSE WOULD BE THE
THREE MAPS I WOULD PUT RIGHT
HERE AND THEN I WOULD AND THEN
THAT WOULD ACTUALLY HELP US
WITH SOME OF THE FEEDBACK WE'RE
GETTING FROM COMMENTERS I THINK
IS THE WAY FUTURE LAND USE MAP
IS DRIVEN DRAWN MAKES SENSE AND
I DON'T THINK IT DOES ENTIRELY
AT LEAST SO IT KIND OF NEEDS TO
BE ORGANIZED AND I THINK WE
NEED TO REVISIT WHAT WE THINK
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP SHOULD
LOOK LIKE AND I'M NOT SURE THAT
WE CAN DO THAT TONIGHT BECAUSE
IT'S ALREADY NINE O'CLOCK.
>> YEAH, WE CAN STILL TALK
ABOUT IT THOUGH.
YEAH I THINK WE SHOULD TALK
ABOUT IT.
>> SO IS THERE A VOTE OR
CONSENSUS ON REMOVING ONE
OF THE DRIVERS OF CHANGE AT
LEAST THE TEXT WE WE YEAH WE
CAN WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT.
>> WE'VE WE'VE ALREADY STRUCK
WHAT ARE WE LOOKING TO PER
PROTECT.
>> YEAH.
ON PAGE 97 MR LINNETT SAID THAT
MAP WOULD GO AWAY.
IS THAT WHAT YOU SUGGESTED MR
OR MOVE OR MOVE.
>> OK ALL RIGHT SO DON'T MOVE
AND THEN COMMISSIONER NORTON
JUST ADJUST IT AND I THERE'S
CONSENSUS TO STRIKE PAGE 98
GRION NINETY NINE.
>> WELL YEAH WELL YEAH NINETY
NINE IS GOING TO COME BACK AT
SEVEN SO I'M NOT CONCERNED
ABOUT THAT MAP AND ANY
DISAGREEMENT WITH THAT SO FAR.
>> CAN WE TAKE BLUEBOX OF WELL
I WAS GOING TO SAY CAN WE TALK
ABOUT THE BLUE BOX ON NINETY
EIGHT BECAUSE WELL I THOUGHT
THE WHOLE PAGE WAS GOING RIGHT
WHICH IS WHERE IF NOW WE DON'T
TALK ANYWHERE IN OUR DOCUMENT
THAT WE IN PUTTING TOGETHER A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE CONSIDERED WHAT OUR
NEIGHBORS OR KEY ENTITIES ARE
DOING.
I FEEL LIKE THIS IS THE ONLY
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THAT WHY WASN'T
IT DONE EARLIER FOR EXAMPLE
BECAUSE I'M ACTUALLY LOOKING AT
THE TWENTY FIFTY PLAN THE
UNIVERSITY'S 2050 PLAN AND LOOK
BACK TO THE TRANSIT LIKE THAT'S
ONLY ONE PART THE ELEVATED
AUTOMATIC TRANSIT IS JUST ONE
PIECE OF IT.
YEAH.
LIKE WE NEED TO WE SHOULD TALK
MORE ABOUT IT.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
AND NOT JUST BECAUSE THAT'S
JUST LIKE ONE HALF OF ONE PIECE
OF THE WHOLE THING OF WHAT
THEY'RE ACTUALLY DOING FOR
TRANSIT.
THAT MAY BE ONE OF OUR GUIDANCE
WE GAVE THE CONSULTANTS WE'VE
TALKED TO THE UNIVERSITY ABOUT
THEIR PLAN.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT IT IT'S VERY
HARD TO DETERMINE WHAT THEY'RE
ACTUALLY TRYING TO DEVELOP.
IT DOES IT DOES HAVE LOCATIONS
OF PROPOSED NEW DEVELOPMENT BUT
IT DOES NOT SAY WHAT IF THEY'RE
GOING TO BE A DORM OR IF
THEY'RE GOING TO BE A RESEARCH
FACILITY, IF THEY'RE GOING TO
BE A CAFETERIA OR WHEN OR WHEN.
SO I THINK THERE'S NOT A TON
OF REFERENCE TO THE PLAN
BECAUSE WE DON'T KNOW HOW TO
PLAN AROUND IT WITHOUT THAT WE
JUST IN CAN WE JUST SAY THAT?
>> YEAH, LIKE IN A POLITE
SENTENCE AND NO MORE CAN WE SAY
SOMETHING?
>> THERE'S GOING TO BE TRANSIT
POPULATION CHANGES AND AND YOU
CAN CHECK OUT FOR YOURSELF HOW
NOT DETAILED BUT I THINK THEY
DID OR I DON'T KNOW HOW TO READ
IT BUT MY UNDERSTANDING WAS
THAT THEIR PLAN TO SHIFT MORE
OF THE UNDERGRADUATES TO BEING
LIVING ON NORTH CAMPUS WAS
PRETTY FIRM AND THEY HAD
NUMBERS ABOUT THAT BUILDING BUT
DORM I KNOW BUT IT DOES I MEAN
IF THEY REALLY ARE DOING THAT,
THAT IS A COMPLICATED TRANSIT
THING AND THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT SO THAT WOULD BE
THE DRIVER FOR THAT MONORAIL
THAT WOULD BE WELL AND IT'S A
DRIVER FOR SOMETHING BUT BUT IT
IS IT IS SOMETHING THAT WILL
AFFECT THE SHAPE OF OUR CITY
BECAUSE WE HAVE PROMOTE
PERIMETER CAMPUS PARKING WHICH
I THINK HAS MORE OF AN EFFECT
THAN THAT AMOUNT THAN A
MONORAIL.
BUT I MEAN I'M JUST SAYING THAT
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S A
POPULATION SHIFT AND THAT
REALLY THAT COULD AFFECT OUR
RENTAL MARKET.
IT IT COULD AFFECT IT DOES
AFFECT THE WAY THAT PEOPLE USE
THINGS ON PLYMOUTH AND I THINK
WE'VE GOTTEN SOME DEVELOPMENT
OF SERVICES IN RESTAURANTS
BECAUSE SO MANY STUDENTS ARE
MOVING OVER THERE SO BUT I
DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S TRUE.
SO IT MIGHT BE WORTH I JUST
REMEMBER THAT FROM AN
ENGAGEMENT SESSION WITH THEM
AND MR RYAN.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
WORTH GETTING THOSE BIGGER
POPULATION SHIFT THINGS AND
THEN WE CAN TALK ABOUT THEIR
LITTLE DETAILS AND THAT'S NOT A
BIG DEAL.
>> BUT SO I AM HEARING A
ELIMINATE THE ENTIRETY OF THE
SPREAD BUT EARLIER IN THE PLAN
ACKNOWLEDGE HOW WE CONSIDER
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PLAN THE
BEST WE CAN.
>> YES, YES.
OK, WHAT ABOUT THESE OTHER ONCE
THE DDA PLANS AND THE EIGHTY
YOU WERE SAYING THE SAME THING
ABOUT ALL OF THOSE THAT THEY
SHOULD BE REFERENCED EARLIER
THAT WHEN THERE'LL BE MORE TO
DISCUSS DURING THE ABOUT
RATIONALE REGARDING
TRANSPORTATION.
>> YEAH OK.
TO ME I FEEL LIKE ALL THE
RATIONALE NEEDS TO COME AND
THEN LIKE CHAPTER FIVE NEEDS TO
JUST BE LIKE TAKING ALL OF THIS
ALL THAT WE HEARD LIKE THIS IS
HOW WE LANDED ON THIS WHICH I
DON'T FEEL LIKE THIS DOES BUT
THAT'S WHAT I THINK IT SHOULD
DO THAT WAS REALLY BIG.
>> YOU THINK THAT IT CAN YOU
SAY IT AGAIN?
YEAH, I THINK LIKE ANYTHING
IT'S SORT OF JUSTIFYING WHAT
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP LOOKS
LIKE TO ME SHOULD COME BEFORE
CHAPTER FIVE IN CHAPTER FOUR
WHERE WE'RE DEVELOPING THE
GOALS AND STRATEGIES AND THEN
CHAPTER FIVE NEEDS TO BE LIKE
BECAUSE OF ALL OF THAT THAT WE
DISCUSSED BOOM.
>> HERE'S THE FUTURE LAND USE
MAP AND IT'S REALLY CLEAR WHY
THERE'S DIFFERENT DISTRICTS
WHERE THEY ARE AND I JUST DON'T
THINK WE'VE ACHIEVED THAT QUITE
YET.
>> THAT'S HOW I KIND OF FEEL
LIKE WE SHOULD BE PRESENTING
THIS INFORMATION.
>> SO THAT WOULD I MEAN I GUESS
WHAT I WAS TRYING TO SAY
EARLIER IS THAT WOULD REQUIRE
READERS TO READ THROUGH
MULTIPLE CHAPTERS OF THE PLAN
WHEREAS THE BOOK IS LIKE IF
SOMEONE JUST WANTS TO READ
CHAPTER FIVE BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT THEY CARE ABOUT THERE IS I
THINK WE REITERATE IT MAYBE
IT'S LIKE BULLETED.
>> MAYBE IT'S JUST LIKE THERE'S
AN EXECUTIVE SUMMARY PART
OF CHAPTER FIVE.
>> I AM FULLY PREPARED TO MAKE
PEOPLE READ THROUGH.
>> NO, I'M NOT JOKING.
LIKE IF SO BELAN USED TO LIKE
WE CANNOT DO THAT WORK HERE
AGAIN WE LIKE I DON'T WANT TO
TELL A CONSULTANT GO BACK AND
SUMMARIZE 70 PAGES OR 80 PAGES
OF CONTENT INTO TWO PAGES.
I JUST DON'T THINK IT'S FAIR OR
THAT THAT FELT HARDER AND LIKE
AGAIN WHERE THERE'S NUANCE IT
JUST WILL NOT COME THROUGH.
WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING TO
STRUGGLE AND CHOKE ON THE
LANGUAGE UNDER ALMOST ANY
SCENARIO.
AND I JUST DIDN'T THAT WAS THE
WHOLE POINT.
IT'S NOT THAT IT'S NOT THAT
THEY WERE OFF BASE AND TRYING
TO DO WHAT THEY DID.
>> JUST MY CONCERN IS THAT IT
JUST SCRUBS OUT A LOT OF THE
THINGS THAT WE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT.
>> IT'S IT JUST ALL GETS
STRIPPED AWAY.
BUT I AGREE AND I'M HAPPY TO DO
THAT.
I JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW NOT
EVERY READERS LOOKING FOR ALL
THE NUANCE OF YES.
SOME PEOPLE WE DON'T WANT A
QUICK SUMMARY OF HOW DID WE GET
HERE AND WHY.
>> UM AND I FEEL PEOPLE ARE
WHAT'S NEW IN THIS COMPARED TO
SOME OF THE OTHER CHAPTERS THE
MAPS WRITE LIKE THIS IT'S THIS
IS THE AND THAT'S WHAT ENDS UP
THIS IS WHY I THINK INCLUDING
THE THINGS THAT MATTER THAT
WE'RE KIND OF THAT WE'RE THAT
WE'RE TAKING INTO ACCOUNT WHEN
WE'RE DOING THE MAP IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND QUICKLY SAYING
WE'VE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT THE
THINGS THAT WE HEAR ARE
IMPORTANT GOALS THAT ARE NOT
NECESSARILY THAT BASED RIGHT.
>> THAT'S JUST SUMMARIZING WHAT
WE TALKED ABOUT AS THE LIKE
WE'VE JUST ESTABLISHED OVERALL
GOALS FOR THE CITY THAT ARE NOT
NECESSARILY SPATIALLY RELATED
NOW WE'RE GOING TO PUT IT DOWN
ON A MAP AND HERE WE'RE GOING
TO DRAW OUT FOR LIKE HERE THE
WHAT DOES IT REALLY MEAN WHAT
YOU REALLY MEAN FOR YOU AND
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.
>> YEAH, OK.
I THINK I THINK IF WE REMOVE
THAT SPREAD AND WE MOVE LIKE
THE BLUE BOX TO WHERE IT'S MORE
RELEVANT IN EARLIER CHAPTERS
THAT WE CAN GO TO PAGE ONE
HUNDRED AM I CAPTURING
EVERYTHING?
YES.
OK, I WILL ALSO SAY ON PAGE ONE
HUNDRED I THINK WE HAD TO MAYBE
REMOVE THIS GRAPHIC BECAUSE
IT'S A I FIND IT VERY
CONFUSING.
>> IT'S COMPLICATED IF YOU
SPEND A LOT OF TIME IT'S USEFUL
BUT I DON'T THINK WE'LL SPEND A
LOT TIME AND IT SORT OF ONLY
USEFUL WHEN YOU SPEND A LOT
OF TIME THEN THE MAP STARTS TO
MAKE MORE SENSE BUT THEY'LL BE
ON SEPARATE PAGES AND I DON'T
KNOW THAT PEOPLE ARE EVER GOING
TO GET TO THAT.
>> YEAH, I MEAN I UNDERSTAND IT
BUT I THOUGHT IT I DIDN'T HAVE
THAT USEFUL.
>> I KNOW.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'LL HAVE THEM MEL THAT UM
SO I HAVE SOME NOTES HERE THAT
WERE SENT IN ABOUT ONE ON ONE
SO THAT'S THE ACTUAL FUTURE
LAND USE MAP.
UM I CAN TALK TO.
OK GO AHEAD.
THAT WAS ME I WAS LOOKING AT
AND THIS WAS WHERE KIRK WAS
FALSE SUNTANS SOME NOTES THAT
WERE HELPFUL AND TRYING TO MAKE
SENSE IN THE MAP AND TRYING
UNPACK IT A LITTLE BIT.
>> THE FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICTS GOT CARVED OUT FROM
THE PREVAILING DESIGNATIONS
AROUND IT.
IT WASN'T HOW WE HANDLED IT
WASN'T HOW HE HANDLED THE OTHER
HISTORIC DISTRICTS WHERE LIKE
THE DOWNTOWN ONES AND THE HILL
STREET ONE THEY GOT WHAT IT
FELT LIKE THEY SHOULD GET
TRANSITION AND SOME OTHER
DESIGNATIONS.
SO IT FEELS LIKE THAT NEEDS TO
BE A TRANSITION FOR THE OLD
FOURTH WARD DISTRICT.
AND THEN THE OTHER QUESTION I
HAD WAS THERE WERE LARGE IT
SEEMED LIKE ANYTHING THAT WAS
MULTIFAMILY SO THREE PLUS
GENERALLY GOT TRANSITION WHICH
EXPLAINS THE LITTLE POCKETS
OF YELLOW IN VARIOUS SPOTS AND
WHERE THEY STOP AND I WAS ABLE
TO TRACK ALL THAT BUT THERE WAS
A LOT OF MULTIFAMILY IN NORTH
CAMPUS PARTICULARLY THAT DIDN'T
GET TRANSITION.
SO UNLESS THERE'S A REASON TO
NOT HAVE IT BE TRANSITION AND
SAME SAME THING FOR OLD FOURTH
WARD, I FEEL LIKE IT JUST NEED
WE JUST NEED TO TREAT THE SAME
WAY.
>> WE'VE TREATED OTHER STUFF
ACCORDING TO THE SAME LOGIC AND
RULES.
>> I CAN TALK TO SOME OF THAT
RIGHT.
BUT MAYBE YOU CAN FOLLOW THE
GUIDANCE THAT WE GOT FROM OUR
HISTORIC PRESERVATIONIST WAS
THAT THE DC MAKES LIKE APPROVES
DEVELOPMENT AND THAT THEY HAVE
SOME CRITERIA THERE THAT REFER
TO GENERAL CHARACTER AND IT WAS
EXPLAINED TO US THAT IF
SOMETHING IS WILDLY OUT
OF SCALE OF WHAT IS CURRENTLY
THERE THAT IT IS NOT LIKELY TO
BE APPROVED.
SO THOSE I THINK THERE WERE
MANY THAT WERE UNDER TRANSITION
AND THAT WE HAVE MOVED BACK TO
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL FOR THAT
REASON AND SO THAT WOULD
INCLUDE PLYMOUTH.
I JUST WANT TO ADDRESS THIS TOO
BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE BROUGHT
UP PLYMOUTH UM, WHY ISN'T THAT
TRANSITION I BELIEVE THERE'S
SOME OVERLAP THERE WITH
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND ALSO THE
GRID IS VERY, VERY STEEP AND
HARD TO DEVELOP ON.
SO I THINK THAT'S WHY WE DID
PROMOTE HIGHER DENSITY THERE.
>> BUT WOULDN'T THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT SUPERSEDE THE OTHER
ZONING?
>> THEY BOTH COEXIST.
THE THOUGHT WAS WOULDN'T IT BE
EFFICIENT FOR US TO MORE
CLOSELY ALIGN THE ZONING
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK WITH THE
HISTORIC
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK?
SO THEN THAT MEANS FOR JUST FOR
MY MY EDIFICATION AND
UNDERSTANDING THAT WE ARE
MEMORIALIZING THAT AREA INTO
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL LOW
RISE LOW RISE.
WELL, I'M ACTUALLY TRYING TO
SAY LOW DENSITY BECAUSE OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT IS GOING TO
PREVENT CERTAIN KINDS OF THINGS
AND I KNOW THERE'S SOME
OPPORTUNITY TO GET THINGS FROM
THE INSIDE AND CREATE MORE
DENSITY.
>> BUT IF WE I GUESS LET ME
GIVE YOU A HYPOTHETICAL IF WE
WERE ABLE TO REMOVE THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT THEN IT
REVERTS TO WHAT'S ON OUR LAND
USE MAP AS ITS ZONING AREA
WHICH IN THIS CASE WOULD BE A
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE WOULD USE TO
RIGHT.
SO THAT MEANS WE ARE SAYING
TODAY AGAIN THIS IS JUST FOR MY
EDIFICATION SO THAT I CAN
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE ARE SAYING
WITH THE WITH THE MAP THAT WE
DON'T EVER IMAGINE A FUTURE
WHERE THAT DISTRICT WOULD GO
AWAY OR COULD CHANGE INTO A
HIGHER DENSITY.
>> AND SO IF THAT'S THE CASE,
WHAT IS THE HARM TO JUST ZONING
IT IF IF THAT DISTRICT DID NOT
EXIST BECAUSE THE DISTRICT THAT
DOES EXIST AUTOMATICALLY LIMITS
IT?
I THINK AGAIN I THINK IT IS A
IT'S AKIN TO WE HAVE THAT EXACT
SAME CIRCUMSTANCE ELSEWHERE IN
THE CITY, RIGHT?
YEAH.
MAIN STREET ALLOWS TALL
BUILDINGS BUT THE STRICTEST IS
GOING TO RIGHT.
RESTRICT THAT.
I SIMPLY THINK IT IS A WAY
OF FOLLOWING SOME OF THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES
OF THE CITY WHICH IS TO IMPROVE
OUR PROCESSES SO THEY'RE MORE
PREDICTABLE.
YOU'RE HONESTLY WHETHER IT'S A
LOW RISE OR HUB, THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT STILL HAS THAT PRIMACY
,RIGHT?
YEAH, I THINK IT FRANKLY
CREATES MORE TENSION AT TIMES
IF THAT'S MAYBE THAT'S WHAT
YOU'RE GETTING AT THAT YOU WANT
TO CREATE.
>> I WHAT I'M THINKING ABOUT ED
IS WE LIVE IN A TIME WHERE
THINGS WE THOUGHT WERE
PERMANENT ARE NO LONGER
PERMANENT.
I KNOW I'M I'M ACTUALLY BEING
SERIOUS RIGHT NOW.
>> SO WE HAVE THE NINETEEN
SIXTY EIGHT HOUSING ACT BUT
THAT COULD BE REPEALED AND THEN
THE DEED RESTRICTIONS THAT
EXIST IN SOME OF THE HOMES
WOULD BE ENFORCEABLE AND SO I
RECOGNIZE THAT THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS EXISTS RECOGNIZE THEY
WOULD BE HARD TO DISMANTLE BUT
WE'RE LOOKING AHEAD FIFTY YEARS
OR NOT LOOKING AHEAD FIVE YEARS
WE'RE NOT LOOKING AHEAD TEN
YEARS SO WHY WOULDN'T WE
IMAGINE IF THEY DID NOT EXIST
WHAT WE WOULD PUT THERE?
>> I WOULD ALSO ADD TO THAT
THAT THAT WHOLE AREA AS FAR AS
UNDERSTAND IT IS OUR FORESEE
RIGHT NOW WE DO WE DO ZONE IT
FOR MULTIFAMILY UNITS.
RIGHT.
AND IT DOES APPEAR THAT THE
LOGIC OF A LOT OF THE
TRANSITION ZONES IS THAT WHERE
WE HAVE MULTIFAMILY ZONING
WE'VE OWNED IT OR WE'VE PLANNED
FOR IT TO BE TRANSITION.
>> SO I BUT ALSO OF THIS IS WE
ARE PLANNING MULTIFAMILY IN OUR
LOW RISE AS WELL BUT NOT
TRANSITION WHERE WE'RE DOING A
SMALLER SCALE PART OF THE WORK
ON A SINGLE NO NO NO I'M JUST
TRYING TO TRY ALL I'M SAYING IS
I'M I'M TRACKING WHAT I SEE TO
BE THE UNDERLYING LOGIC OF WHAT
GOT WHAT GOT COLORED YELLOW AND
THE START OF THE OLD FOURTH
WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT IN
PARTICULAR GOT CARVED OUT AND
YEAH, I DON'T SEE A REASON TO I
DON'T SEE A REASON TO DO THAT.
>> THEY HAVE THEIR HISTORIC
DISTRICT THAT'S A SEPARATE
LEGAL REGIME.
IT EXISTS I CAN'T IMAGINE IT
GOING AWAY IN THE NEAR TERM.
BUT JUST AS WE MAKE ZONING
DECISIONS FOR THAT DISTRICT
THAT CONTEMPLATE THAT THERE
MIGHT MULTIFAMILY HOUSING
CONSTRUCTED THERE, I THINK WE
OUGHT TO PLAN FOR THAT
POSSIBILITY AND IT'S A SEPARATE
IT'S A SEPARATE PROCESS AND A
SEPARATE JUDGMENT.
YEAH.
AND I WORRY THAT BY MAKING A
DIFFERENT JUDGMENT HERE THAN IN
10 YEARS AND 15 YEARS SOMEONE'S
GOING TO SAY WELL EVEN PLANNING
AND TWO THOUSAND TWENTY FIVE
SHOULD BE LOW RISE AND RIGHT.
I'M NOT MAKING THAT JUDGMENT.
I'M ACTUALLY I THINK LOOKING AT
THIS MAP IT MAKES SENSE TO IT'S
TRANSITION.
>> YEAH, I WOULD CONCUR WITH
THAT.
>> AND IF DOWNTOWN IF DOWNTOWN
ISN'T CARVED OUT THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS IN DOWNTOWN THEN WHY
ARE THE OTHER ONES CARVED OUT
AGAIN I'M JUST OR COULD WE HAVE
LIKE A HISTORIC DISTRICT ZONING
CATEGORY JUST LIKE REFERS BACK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT ZONING
CODE AND I'M TO PUT A FIVE
DOWNTOWN WE YOU I THINK I GUESS
THAT'S PART OF THE SAME
RATIONALE IS THAT WE'VE WE
THINK THAT MAYBE DOWN THE ROAD
WE MIGHT NOT WANT TO PROTECT
OUR DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICTS
AND I GUESS THAT IS THE SAME
THE YEAH.
THE SHORT OF IT IS I JUST WANT
TO BE CLEAR WHEN I SAW THE MAP
I THOUGHT THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL THAT IS DESCRIBED IN
THE TRANSITION ZONE IS UNLIKELY
FOR THOSE BECAUSE OF TOTALLY IS
NOT BECAUSE OF US.
SO YEAH I SAID I UNDERSTOOD
BECAUSE OF THE CITY'S LEGAL
FRAMEWORK AND BECAUSE OF THE
CITY'S POLICIES AND SO THAT'S
THAT'S IT WAS TRYING TO
CALIBRATE IT WAS A SUGGESTION
TO CALIBRATE ZONING WITH THAT
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE TO TALK
ABOUT IF YOU THINK IT'D BE
BETTER FOR RECLASS I WOULD LOVE
TO HEAR THE FEEDBACK AND I
THINK I'D I MEAN I WOULD ALMOST
STRAW POLL I MEAN I DON'T WANT
CUT-THROAT THE DISCUSSION BUT I
WOULD ALMOST STRAW POLL IT IS
WE OUGHT THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THE LOGIC OF THE THE
DESIGNATIONS WE'RE MAKING OUGHT
TO APPLY.
WE SHOULDN'T CARVE OUT ANY
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS FROM
THOSE DESIGNATIONS AND THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT IS WHERE WE
SHOULD CARE ABOUT ALL OF YOUR
CARVEOUT, ALL OF THEM BUT TREAT
THEM THE SAME AND THAT'S IT.
BUT CAN'T WE CAN'T WE DO SOME
OF THOSE DISTRICTS WERE
CREATED WITH DIFFERENT CONTEXT.
>> SURE.
SURE.
WELL, THEY STILL OPERATE ON THE
CONTEXT OF A RESIDENTIAL
FRAMEWORK OF SIDE SOMALI
DOWNTOWN IS NOT QUITE THE SAME
BUT IT STILL HAS DIFFERENT
RESTRICTIONS.
SO I CAN'T SIT HERE AND SUGGEST
THAT THE SAME LAND USE I WOULD
RECOMMEND THE SAME LAND USE
EVEN IF YOU WANTED TO CARVE OUT
ALL DISTRICTS THEY MIGHT HAVE
DIFFERENT LAND USE TOTALLY FINE
AND I DIDN'T POINT OUT THAT I
DIDN'T POINT OUT THE WHAT'S OLD
WEST SIDE BECAUSE THAT ACTUALLY
WHEN I LOOKED AT THE HOW IT'S
CURRENTLY ZONED THE YELLOW THE
YELLOW MAP TO RIGHT ON TOP
OF MULTIFAMILY THEN THE ARE ONE
IN OUR TWO STUFF GOT LOW RISE
THAT ALL SEEM TO TRACK IT WAS
THE OLD FOURTH WARD THAT LOOKED
DIFFERENT AND SO THAT WAS THE
ONE THAT CALLED UP I'M SORRY TO
AND THAT WAS I THINK IT WAS
KIRK WESTFALL COMMENTED THAT IT
LOOKS LIKE THE LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL IT'S LARGELY THE
ARE ONE OUR TWO DISTRICTS IN
THE AND THE TRANSITION IS THE
THREE AND FOUR AND THAT'S WHY I
THINK ONE OF THE MAPS THAT
NEEDS TO BE HERE TO EXPLAIN HOW
WE GOT TO THE FUTURE
ARRANGEMENTS WOULD BE THE
EXISTING SUM LIKE A
SIMPLIFICATION OR THE EXISTING
LAND USE THAT'S KIND
OF INFORMING THIS PROCESS AND
IT STRIKES ME THAT THAT SOUNDS
LIKE AN APPROPRIATE THING TO DO
AND IT WOULD PROBABLY MAKE
SENSE TO INCLUDE A HASH TO SHOW
WHERE THE EXISTING HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ARE TO SIGNAL TO
PEOPLE THAT THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ARE STILL THERE.
THEY MAY GO AWAY EVENTUALLY BUT
RIGHT NOW THEY STILL HAVE LEGAL
FORCE.
WE SHOULD ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN
THE FUTURE LAND SMAP SO PUT PUT
A HASH OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ON TOP OF THAT
PROTOCOL WHICH MADE SENSE TO ME
THE ARE TWO IN OUR ONE GO INTO
RESIDENTIAL ARE THREE AND FOUR
GO INTO TRANSITION SO BECAUSE
IT'S THE HILL STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT IS THAT CARVED OUT NOW
WHEN WE GET TO PAGE ONE OR TWO
WE HAVE THAT CHART EVENTUALLY
WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO SHOW
WHICH ZONES IN LINE WITH WHICH
PROPOSED THAT'S ON HERE NOW
BECAUSE THINGS COULD CHANGE
STILL BUT WE WILL HAVE A TABLE
SHOWS LIKE THE CORRESPONDING
ZONE THAT CONNECTS TO OUR
PROPOSED DISTRICT AND SO
COMMISSIONER NORTON AND I HAD A
QUESTION ABOUT ARE YOU SAYING
WE SHOULD HAVE THE EXISTING
LAND USE MAP OR THE EXISTING
ZONING MAP BECAUSE THE EXISTING
ZONING MAP I WILL SAY JUST
LOGISTICALLY THERE'S LIKE
THIRTY THERE'S LIKE THIRTY SIX
SO IT'S JUST SIX OR AT THE
SCALE OF WHAT EACH PARCEL IS.
HOW WHAT WAS THE LOGIC THAT
WENT INTO IDENTIFYING THE
DISTRICT?
>> I FEEL LIKE I'M MISSING SO
WE STARTED WITH SOME BROAD
STROKES LIKE LIKE YOU ARE
REALIZING WE TOOK OUR ONE IN
OUR TWO LOOKED AT THOSE FOUR
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL WE LOOKED
AT A LOT OF MULTIFAMILY AS
TRANSITION ZONES.
WE LOOKED AT OUR ONE IN OUR
DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS AS HUBS.
>> YOU'LL RECALL WE STARTED
MORPHING SOME OF THOSE LIKE
EXPLORING LIKE WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS A SORT OF UNIQUE
CHARACTER ASPECTS HEARD LOUD
AND CLEAR NO DON'T.
SO THEN FROM THAT WE STARTED
APPLYING SOME OTHER LAYERS THAT
SOME OF THE DRIVERS FROM CHANGE
RIGHT.
WE HAVE SOME TRANSIT AND IN OUR
COMMUNITY SOME OF THESE
CORRIDORS SO WE ENVISION THAT
THE ZONING WHAT THE CURRENT
ZONING AND LAND USE PATTERN
THERE MIGHT NOT BE THE END GAME
.
>> MILLER IS AN EXAMPLE
OF THAT.
RIGHT.
THAT IS NOT A HIGH TRANSIT
CORRIDOR PLANNED.
HOWEVER, I SIT HERE AND SUGGEST
THAT THAT'S A MULTI-MODAL
CORRIDOR WITH A DIRECT LINE TO
THE CITY THAT I DON'T KNOW,
JUST LIMITING IT TO LOW RISE IS
THE RIGHT REALIZATION
OF DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS ON THAT
CORRIDOR.
SO THEN SO THOSE ARE SOME
OF THE STEPS WE GOT THERE AND
THEN WE STARTED MAKING SOME
OTHER ADJUSTMENTS LIKE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT WITH THE OLD
FOURTH HISTORIC DISTRICT WITH
THINKING ABOUT THE EXPANSION
OF HUB INTO THE BUYER WITH SITE
FROM THE EXISTING ONE CORRIDOR
TALKING ABOUT THE FLECK'S
DISTRICTS AND WHERE THOSE GO.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE NORTH HERE
ALONG THE HERE ON RIVER
CORRIDOR TO THE NORTH LIKE WHAT
THE RIGHT LAND USE PATTERN
SHIFTING AT MORE I GUESS FULLY
FROM LIKE A MANUFACTURING INTO
LIKE A MIXED TRANSITIONAL USE.
SO THOSE ARE HOW WE GOT TO THIS
MAP.
IT WAS IT WAS NONE OF THOSE
THINGS BY THEMSELVES
.
IT WAS SO I WOULD SUGGEST I
THINK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
ME I WOULDN'T REPLICATE THE
ENTIRE ZONING MAP IN ALL ITS
QUITE DETAIL BUT GENERATING A
MAP THAT CALLS OUT THE
IMPORTANT FEATURES OF IT, IT
ACTUALLY BECAME IMPORTANT IN
INFLUENCING THE FUTURE.
LEONIE'S MAP LIKE WHERE THEY
ARE ONE OR TWO DISTRICTS AND
WHERE THEY ARE THREE OR FOUR
DISTRICTS AND WHATEVER FEATURES
WERE BECAME IMPORTANT
INDICATORS SHOWING THAT HERE'S
THE KIND OF SELECTED EXISTING
LAND USES THAT INFORMED WHAT
WE'RE MAPPING AS THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE VERY
HELPFUL AND THE LOGIC IT MADE
SENSE TO ME TO MAKE THE LOW
RISE THE ONE IN TWO DISTRICTS
IN THE TRANSITION THE ARE THREE
IN OUR FOUR DISTRICTS UM AND SO
I'M NOT SURE HOW THAT PLAYS OUT
WITH THE OLD WEST SIDE BECAUSE
THEY'RE SMART FORESE IN THERE
RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
SO AND I THINK THEY GOT IT I
WENT AND LOOKED IN THAT YELLOW
BUBBLE THAT YOU SEE KIND
OF BUBBLING INTO IT.
YEAH I THINK THE AIR FORCE HE
GOT CAPTURED SO I WOULD SHOW
THOSE THINGS AND THEN NOT YOU
KNOW, I WOULDN'T DO IT LIKE WE
SHOULD EITHER INCLUDE ALL
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS IN
TRANSITION OR NOT.
I WOULDN'T THINK OF IT THAT
WAY.
I WOULD THINK IF WE'RE USING
THE LOGIC OF OUR ONE HOUR TO TO
LOW RISE IN OUR THREE OR FOUR
TO TRANSITION DO THAT AND THEN
JUST SHOW AN OVERLAY OF WHERE
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE
RIGHT NOW JUST TO SEE HOW
THEY'RE LAYING ON TOP OF THOSE
UNDERLYING THINGS.
SO JUST HAVING ONE OR TWO THEY
OPEN THE NOT THE OPEN SPACE MAP
AND THE TRANSIT MAP AND THAT
KIND OF EXISTING LAND USES THAT
OUR CURRENT LAND USES WHETHER A
CURRENTLY NEWSPAPER IN THE
ZONING MAP THAT KIND
OF INFORMED THE LOGIC THAT
WOULD REALLY HELP INFORM HOW
DID YOU GET TO THIS FUTURE LAND
USE MAP.
SO THE SHORT ANSWER IS PLANNER
BENNET NOT STRICTLY THE ZONING
MAP BUT SOME SIMPLIFIED
CREATION OF IT THAT WAS USED TO
INFORM THE MAP.
>> CAN WE GO BACK TO MAYBE
START WITH THE OLD FOURTH WARD
LIKE I JUST THE YEAH.
DOES THE COMMISSION ENVISION
THAT THE LAND USE CHANGE?
YEAH, I WAS MAYBE THE MAYBE THE
PROPOSAL I'M MAKING IS THAT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS GET TREATED
CONSISTENTLY WITH HOW THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD IS
BEING TREATED FOR PURPOSES
OF THE PLAN THE LAND USE MAP.
>> BUT NASHED OR SOMETHING OR
THEY CAN BE CALLED OUT OUR
HOUSE IS A HISTORIC DISTRICT
BUT THE RECOMMENDATION WE MAKE
SHOULD BE CONSISTENT WITH OUR
RULES AND CARVE OUTS.
WE WE SHOULDN'T BE MAKING
EXCEPTIONS SO THE WORD HERE
WOULD BE TRANSITION THAT'S MORE
OR LESS BECAUSE IT'S CURRENTLY
ARE THREE FOUR CORRECT.
AND YOU CAN SEE HOW THE YELLOW
THERE KIND OF EXTENDS OUTWARD
FROM THE HUB EXCLUDES THE OLD
FOURTH WARD.
THAT'S KIND OF A RAMBLING
MOTION OR SOMETHING BUT I FEEL
LIKE FOLKS UNDERSTAND YEAH.
>> AS A GENERAL SUPPORT FOR
THAT THERE IS DO YOU WANT US TO
DO OK SO ARE WE READY TO VOTE?
>> SO I'M JUST TALKING ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC I THINK WE'RE JUST
TALKING ABOUT HOW WE'RE GOING
TO CHANGE THE STRUCTURE.
YEAH.
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT
HAVE SO I JUST WHATEVER THEIR
UNDERLYING ZONING EXACTLY.
>> SO IF THEY'RE SO YOU SO YOU
WANT THIS PLAN TO BE MORE
REFERENTIAL TO OUR CURRENT
ZONING NOT THAT SO CURRENT
ZONING I THINK WITH THAT IF
SOMEBODY SHOULD ALIGN WELL
THAT'S RIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO GET TO SO IF IF
IF A HISTORIC DISTRICT IS
CURRENTLY ZONED DR. FAUCI IT
WOULD GO AUTOMATICALLY AS MIXED
USE IF THAT'S THE REASON WE USE
IT.
YES, THAT'S IT.
THAT'S HOW STAFF AND THE
CONSULTANT DID THE WORK AND
THAT'S WHAT I PROPOSE THAT YOU
DON'T WANT TO INTRODUCE THE
NOTION THAT MAYBE WE WANT TO
CHANGE THAT FRAMEWORK THAT THAT
AFFECT DEVELOPMENT
NONCONTRIBUTING DEVELOPMENT IN
THOSE AREAS STILL GET REVIEWED
ON YOUR SIMILAR STANDARDS.
>> THEY'RE STILL CONTEXTUAL.
SO SO IT DOESN'T IT WOULDN'T
REALLY CHANGE WHAT COULD BE
BUILT THERE ON NONCONTRIBUTING?
>> YEAH, I THINK WE I THINK
WE'VE COVERED THAT.
I WILL I FEEL THAT'S RESOLVED.
OK, BUT MY QUESTION IS I WANT
TO UNDERSTAND THIS LANGUAGE
ABOUT TREATING HISTORIC
DISTRICTS HOW AND SO WE CAN
TREAT THEM BASED ON THEIR
CURRENT ZONING THAT IS THAT IS
TAKING FORTH OUR CURRENT
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK AS OUR
PLAN.
>> SO I WANT TO BACK UP SO I
UNDERSTOOD THE TRANSITION ZONES
TO HAVE BEEN LARGELY MAPPED OUT
LARGELY AND YOU EXPLAINED MIKE
MILLER IS A GOOD EXAMPLE FOR AN
EXCEPTIONAL COMBINATION
MULTIFAMILY ZONE.
RIGHT.
AND COURAGEOUS THAT THE GENERAL
RULE OF THUMB WAS WITH R-1 IN
ORDER TO IT GOT LOW RISE AND
THE GENERAL RULE OF THUMB WITH
TRANSITION WITH OUR THREE FOUR
IT GOT TRANSITION BUT YEAH,
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
BUT MY MY QUESTION IS AS PART
OF THIS IS OUR ASPIRATION THERE
MIGHT BE THERE MIGHT BE ARE ONE
AREAS THAT WE THINK ARE
APPROPRIATE FOR MIXED USE
TRANSIENT BUT FOR SPECIFIC
DEFINED REASONS.
>> AND WHAT I'M POINTING OUT IS
THAT WE'VE TREATED SOME
HISTORIC DISTRICTS ONE WAY AND
OTHERS THE WAY.
SO I THINK WE NEED TO BE FAIR
MINDED ABOUT IT AND DO IT ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER AND I DON'T
SEE A REASON TO CARVE OUT ALL
OF THEM.
SO I WANT A MEETING.
WE'VE GOT AN EXCEPTION.
IT LOOKS LIKE AN EXCEPTION
THERE FOR THE FOURTH PART WE
DON'T HAVE THAT FOR THE
DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
WE DON'T HAVE FOR THE HILL
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND I JUST
WANT TO TREAT THEM THE SAME AND
I THINK THE BEST WAY TO TREAT
THEM IS JUST TREAT THEM THE
SAME WAY THAT WE TREAT WE APPLY
THE RULES GENERALLY SPEAKING
UNLESS THERE'S A REASON NOT TO.
BUT THERE'S A REASON THAT
YOU'VE ARTICULATED FOR WHY
MILLER IS DIFFERENT AND WE'LL
DEBATE THAT AND DISCUSS THAT
LATER.
BUT THERE'S NOT A REASON I CAN
THINK OF FOR WHY THE OVERREPORT
SHOULD BE DIFFERENT.
SO LET'S JUST TREATED THE SAME
UNLESS THERE'S A REASON TO
TREAT IT DIFFERENTLY.
>> CAN I SORT OF AGAIN RAMBLING
BUT I AGREE THE THE THING THAT
I WOULD ADD TO THIS IS THAT
GENERALLY SPEAKING I DON'T
THINK I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S
I WILL SPEAK FOR MYSELF.
I'M NOT SURE THAT THERE IS A
REASON TO TAKE THINGS THAT YOU
KNOW AGAIN ONE HOUR ONE AND TWO
BEING RISE MOVING TO LOW RISE
HIGHER OR NO BEING TRANSITIONAL
LIKE I DON'T I DON'T UNLESS
THERE ARE PLACES WHERE WE'RE
LIKE THERE'S NO WAY IN THE
WORLD THAT WE THINK THE
EXISTING KIND OF MULTIFAMILY
HIGHER THOSE HIGHER HOURS ARE
HIGHER INTENSITY, HIGHER UNLESS
THERE'S SOME PLACE WHERE WE
THINK THERE JUST SHOULD NOT BE
DEVELOPMENT EVER IN THE FUTURE,
I DON'T SEE A REASON TO MOVE
THEM DOWN ON THE INTENSITY.
AND SO I THINK BUT I WANT TO
SAY YES, THERE ARE PLACES THAT
WE THINK CURRENTLY ARE ONE OR
TWO THAT SHOULD BE MOVED UP IN
TERMS OF INTENSITY FOR DOWNTOWN
GROWING OR FOR GOING ALONG
CORRIDORS.
>> SO I I DON'T WANT TO BE
TOTALLY WENT TO WHAT WE HAVE
NOW BUT THAT'S THE STARTING
POINT AND I THINK WE ADD
ADDITIONAL DENSITY FROM THERE
RATHER THAN TAKE IT AWAY.
RIGHT.
WHICH B AND I ALSO WANT TO SAY
I'M REALLY I THINK HAVING THIS
OVERLAY SO THAT WE ARE VERY
CLEAR WITH PEOPLE AND
DEVELOPERS ABOUT WHERE THERE
ARE EXISTING HISTORIC DISTRICTS
SO THEY'RE NOT LOOKING AT THIS
THING LIKE OH LOOK, I THINK
THAT THAT'S REALLY, REALLY
IMPORTANT TOO.
SO I WOULD ONLY VOTE FOR
FILLING THAT IN AND YELLOW
FILLING THE OLD FOURTH WARD AND
YELLOW IF WE ALSO HAVE
SOMETHING THAT HAS AN OVERLAY
SHOWING WHERE THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ARE AND NOT JUST THAT
ONE ALL OF THEM.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK THAT'S HELPFUL FOR
PEOPLE TO SEE.
I THERE THERE'S A LITTLE TABLE
FOR THAT HISTORIC DISTRICT FROM
THIS CONSIDERATION.
YEAH.
I THINK WE CAN DO A HASHING
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT BUT I
THINK WHERE I WAS MOVING
TOWARDS COMMISSIONER ADAMS WAS
TOWARDS THE TRANSITION AND THE
PLACES WHERE THEY ARE MISSING
NOW OR IN THE APPROPRIATE
FUTURE DISTRICTS WHERE THEY ARE
MISSING NOW AND FEEL LIKE
THERE'S SOME SUPPORT AT THE
TABLE.
LET'S HEAR FROM COMMISSIONER
NORTON AND SO THE LOGIC SO TO
GO BACK TO A QUESTION YOU ASKED
A FEW MINUTES AGO, IT MAKES IT
CLEARLY THE EXISTING LAND USE
IS INFORMING THE FUTURE LAND
USE MAP PROVIDING THE RELEVANT
ELEMENTS OF WHAT THE EXISTING
LAND USE IS BEING USED TO
INFORM AND MAPPING.
THAT WOULD BE A HELPFUL THING
TO PUT ON A MAP JUST SO PEOPLE
CAN SEE.
SO THAT WAS SO IT'S THE
EXISTING LAND USE ISN'T
PREDETERMINING IN A HARD FIXED
WAY WHAT THE FUTURE LAND IS
BECAUSE THERE ARE PLACES WHERE
WE'RE GOING TO STAY YOU KNOW,
THIS WOULD BE A GOOD PLACE FOR
MORE DENSITY BUT HAVING A MAP
OF WHAT EXISTING IS THAT'S
IMPORTANT.
>> IT WOULD BE HELPFUL AND
YOU'RE SEEING LAND USE BUT YOU
MEAN ZONING?
>> WELL, THE SIMPLE KIND
OF SIMPLIFIED ZONING MAP THAT'S
REALLY KIND OF ALLOWING
EXISTING LINE OK.
YEAH, AND THEN THE SECOND POINT
IS WE OUGHT TO TREAT THIS THE
LOGIC THAT I'M HEARING IS FOR A
PARTICULARLY THE LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL AND TRANSITION
DISTRICTS IT WAS LARGELY
PREMISED ON THE AH ON OUR TWO
GOING INTO LOW RISE USE THAT
SAME LOGIC FOR THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS DON'T TWEAK IT JUST
BECAUSE IT'S AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT BUT THEN PUT THE
OVERLAY OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT ON TOP OF IT.
>> I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
ALL COMING UP.
I THINK SO, YEAH.
SO WAS THAT ANSWER THE QUESTION
ABOUT IT WAS OUR FORESEE IT
STAYS.
YEAH.
>> TRANSITION I JUST DON'T SIT
HERE KNOWLEDGEABLE OF ALL THE
OTHER JUDGMENTS THAT WE DEBATED
OUTSIDE THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
AND SO I THINK THAT'S ONE
OF THE THINGS I'M STRUGGLING
WITH SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A
SENSITIVITY TO US TREATING THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS WHICH I GET
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, THERE'S
DIVERSITY OF OPINION HERE ABOUT
THE LONG TERM BENEFIT, YOU
KNOW, GOAL OF THOSE.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO BE ABSOLUTE
AND SAY LIKE EVERY HOUR ONE
HOUR TO EVEN OUTSIDE DISTRICTS
IS NOW A LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
BECAUSE THAT'S GONE THROUGH
SOME QUALIFICATION THIS MAP.
>> BUT I GUESS I JUST POSIT ALL
OF YOU PART OF THAT IS YOUR
REVIEW OF IT AND IF THINGS LOOK
FINE, WE'RE JUST GOING TO HAVE
TO CONTINUE TO GO SAID GOING TO
BE OK, FINE.
WE'LL RAISE THEM AND DISCUSS
THEM.
I THINK SO GOOD TO BE MY NEXT
REQUEST.
IT WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL.
SO INSTEAD OF KIND
OF RECAPITULATING THE STUFF
BEFORE WHAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
REALLY HELPFUL WAS WHAT WAS THE
PROCESS THAT WAS USED TO
GENERATE THIS MAP PLUS ONE
HERE'S THE RUBRIC WE USED THE
LOGIC AND HERE'S WHY
WE'RE
MAKING R-1 AN HOUR TO A LOW
RISE AND HERE'S WHY THIS IS
ACTUALLY A PLACE TO ELEVATE IT
TO A HIGHER DENSITY BETTER
VERSION OF THE THINGS WE'RE
TRYING TO PROTECT IN THE
DRIVERS RIGHT.
I MEAN WE HAD THIS CONVERSATION
WITH THE CONSULTANTS WHEN WHEN
WE FIRST STARTED ALL OF THIS
AND THEY INTRODUCED THE ZONES
BECAUSE WE BUT THEN THEY ONLY
HAD FOUR.
SO THAT WAS JUST TOO ABSTRACT
AND IT WAS A RECAPITULATION.
I WANT TO SEE THE LOGIC.
HERE'S THE SEQUENCE WE USED TO
LAY OUT IN THE IN THE KIND
OF PROTEAU THE ALGORITHM WE
STEPPED THROUGH.
I'M USING BIG WORDS RIGHT NOW
BUT HERE'S THE SEQUENCE WE STEP
THROUGH TO FINALLY DECIDE
WHAT'S GOING TO BE LOW RISE.
IT'S GOING TO BE AND HERE'S WHY
THIS MAP FELL OUT THE WAY IT
DID.
AND THEN THE FINAL POINT I WANT
TO MAKE IS THE COMMENTERS WE'VE
HEARD FROM OUR POINTING OUT
THERE ARE PLACES WHERE WHAT'S
CURRENTLY THERE IS MORE DENSE
AND WHAT WOULD BE SUGGESTED BY
WHAT'S GETTING SHOWN ON THE
FUTURE LANDY'S MAP.
WE DON'T WANT TO DO THAT, DO
WE?
BUT I THINK WE NEED TO GO BACK
AND REVISIT SOME OF THE
DECISIONS TO MAKE SURE TO MAKE
SURE THAT IN PARTICULAR DOESN'T
END LIKE SOMETHING WE TURN
NONCONFORMING ALL OF A SUDDEN
THAT WAS GOING TO BE MY CONCERN
WITH THIS IS DO WE CREATE NEW
NONCONFORMITY?
SO WE WANT TO BE CAREFUL AS A
CREATOR?
WELL, YES WE YES WE KNOW TO
JUST CHOOSE A PLACE THAT'S
PRETTY DENSE.
BUT THE PLAN AS RIGHT.
RIGHT.
BUT MAYBE BUT I DON'T WANT US
TO CONFLATE THIS.
COULD WE JUST STAY FOCUSED ON
SURE WE CAN WE CAN WE CAN
FINISH THIS AND THEN GO ON TO
THE NEXT THING SO RIGHT.
AND MAYBE TONIGHT ISN'T THE
NIGHT TO TALK ABOUT BIGMAN BUT
SO WHAT I'M HEARING IS THAT WE
WANT TO SPELL OUT THE LOGIC.
YES.
IT WAS IT WAS ROUGHLY AH WHEN
OUR TWO WENT TO LOW RISE FOR
OUR FOUR CORRIDORS BECAME
TRANSITION BUT THEN YEAH OUR
FOUR CORRIDORS BECAUSE THAT
PUTS THE EXISTING ZONING
TOGETHER WITH THE CONSIDERATION
OF TRANSIT AND THEN THERE'S A
PRINCIPLE THAT'S BEEN
INTRODUCED WHICH IS DENSITY CAN
BE ADDED BUT NOT SUBTRACTED.
>> SO I HATE THE WORDS UP
ZONING AND DOWN ZONING BUT
THERE CAN BE UP ZONING BUT
THERE WILL NOT DOWN ZONING AND
THAT IS CORRECT BECAUSE THE
DOWN ZONE IS TO MAKE HOUSING
MORE EXPENSIVE.
SO I THINK THAT THERE'S NOTHING
WRONG WITH THAT AND THEN
THERE'S ALL THE HISTORIC WE ARE
PRESERVING THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
>> WE SAID THAT IN THE PLAN.
NO WELL OOPS.
SORRY ABOUT PRESERVING WE'RE
WE'RE JUST ACKNOWLEDGING THAT
WE'RE ACKNOWLEDGING THAT OK,
GOOD OK SO WHAT DOES IT SAY
WHAT'S THE LANGUAGE WHICH WE DO
NOW WE TOOK IT OUT WE SAY NO
THAT'S NOT THE ONLY PLACE THE
PLAN TALKED ABOUT HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
IT'S NOT IT'S WAY WAY AT THE
BEGINNING BARTTER ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THEY EXIST OK?
>> THEY SO THERE IS GOING TO
NEED TO BE A BIT OF WORD
SMITHING THERE BECAUSE PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO FLUSTER BUT BUT
THAT THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
SHOULD BE AS A GROUP TREATED
CONSISTENTLY BUT NOT
NECESSARILY SPECIFIED THE SAME
WAY THEY HAVE DIFFERENT
RESTRICTIONS IN THEM WHICH
MAKES SENSE BUT THEY SHOULD
EACH OF THEM SHOULD BE ZONED UP
JUST SOUND ACCORDINGLY RIGHT?
>> YEAH, BUT WE'RE GOING TO
MARK THEM CLEARLY.
BUT LAND IS PLANNED
ACCORDINGLY.
>> YEAH, THEY SAY OH I CAN'T
ACTUALLY DO THIS RIGHT.
>> THERE'S THAT'S A HISTORIC
DISTRICT RIGHT NOW SO THAT IS
FINE.
>> YEAH.
YES I'M TRYING HARD TO FOLLOW.
>> YEAH OK LET ME GIVE YOU A
HYPOTHETICAL EXAMPLE.
THERE IS AN AREA OF THE CITY
THAT IS ZONED OUR FORESE WHAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT IS BY THE
CONVENTION THAT WE BUILT OUT
OF THIS PLAN WITH MY LARGELY GO
TO A MIXED USE TRANSITION TO
THAT SAME AREA HAS A BUILDING
THAT IS FIFTEEN STORIES HIGH
THAT WOULD ONLY BE PERMISSIBLE
IN THE HUB DISTRICT.
SO IS YOUR PREMISE THEN THAT WE
WOULD NOT WANT TO DESIGNATE
THAT PARTICULAR AIR OR C AREA
TO TRANSITION BECAUSE WE WOULD
NEVER WANT TO DESIGNATE A
LANDY'S WHERE THEY MIGHT CREATE
NONCONFORMITY?
>> I WAS NOT STARTING TO TALK
ABOUT NONCONFORMITY AT ALL.
>> I ASK NO, NO.
I'M TALKING ABOUT THE LAND USE
PLAN.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WAS RAISED IS THAT THIS PLAN IS
RECOMMENDING LOWER SCALE
DEVELOPMENT THAN SOME EXISTING.
AND SO IN THAT SCENARIO THAT I
JUST GAVE, CAN YOU FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE IN THE HOUSE WANT
TO YOU WANT TO ADOPT HOW WOULD
YOU DIRECT ME TO MAKE THOSE
DECISIONS ON THE MAP THAT'S
PRESENTED TO YOU?
>> SO I WOULD START BECAUSE I
THINK I AM WORKING IN A
CONSTRUCT WHICH YOU ARE NOW
SAYING CAN CHANGE.
SO I'M WORKING IN THE CONSTRUCT
WE HAVE FIVE ZONING DISTRICTS
AND THEY HAVE BEEN LAID HERE IF
WE LAND WELL FOR PLUS LET ME
SAY IS THERE SORRY WHAT DID I
SAY IT IS THE FIRST TIME I'M
GOING TO BLAME THE CLOCK.
ALL RIGHT.
I MEANT IT IT WAS VERY CLEAR MY
HEAD INLAND NOT ZONING SO I'M
USING THAT AS A FRAMEWORK AND
SO I'M TRYING TO STAY WITHIN
THAT FRAMEWORK.
THIS QUESTION ASKS ME TO EXIT
THAT FRAMEWORK AND JUST LET ME
FINISH.
SO IF I WERE EXITING IT I THINK
MY ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION IS
LET'S GET RID OF WHAT CREATES
THAT PROBLEM SO IF THAT MEANS
WE HAVE FOUR AND WE NEED TO GO
TO THREE, LET'S GO TO THREE.
SO WE DON'T FOR INSTANCE, TAKE
FIVE CORNERS AND MAKE IT
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE IT'S IN A
TRANSITION ZONE THAT HAS A A-T
HEIGHT LIMIT BUT THAT'S GOING
TO BE FIFTEEN STOREYS.
I THINK THAT IS PROBLEMATIC BUT
I'M STAYING FOR THE PURPOSE
CONVERSATION RIGHT NOW.
I'M STAYING TIGHTLY INSIDE
WHAT'S COMING ON PAGES ONE OR
TWO AND ONE OR THREE.
>> BUT IF I CAN EXIT THEN
THAT'S MY ANSWER.
I'M SORRY I'M HAVING TROUBLE
FOLLOWING THE OF THE CONSTRUCT
QUESTION BECAUSE I'M I'M POSING
THE QUESTION OF I THINK I'M
POSING THAT QUESTION IN THE
CONSTRUCT I'M ASKING YOU KNOW
WE HAVE WE HAVE THIS GEOGRAPHY
AND WE NEED TO PUT A COLOR ON
THE MAP TO THAT GEOGRAPHY.
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS LIKE YOUR
AND IF I'M UNDERSTANDING YOUR
ANSWER TO THAT IS WE SHOULD GET
RID OF ONE COLOR AND IN THAT
CASE CHANGE OUR CONSTRUCT SO
WE'RE NOT RELYING ON THE
UNDERLYING ZONING MAYBE IN THAT
CASE BUT YEAH.
>> SO WHAT I WOULD I RIGHT NOW
IF YOU'RE SAYING THIS IS IN HUB
LIKE LET'S LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
FACT BECAUSE I THINK IT'S A
GREAT EXAMPLE.
>> SO THAT'S PACARD STATE AND
NOT HILL BUT HOOVER.
HOOVER YEAH.
>> OK SORRY.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE IN WHAT
FORESEEN TO BE TRANSITION BUT
IT'S GOING TO BE TOO TALL FOR
IT.
>> YOU SHOULD BE KNOW THAT WELL
WE DON'T KNOW HOW TALL THINGS
ARE AND WE HAVEN'T GOTTEN TO
THAT WELL WE DON'T BUT WE KNOW
THIS BUT THIS WILL BE SO TO ME
IN THAT CASE THEN THEN I WOULD
JUST GO LOW RISE TO HUB AND
THEN YOU YOU STEP ACTS TO DEAL
WITH THE TRANSITION AS OPPOSED
TO HAVING A FORCE TRANSITION.
SO THAT'S HOW I WOULD ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION OR I WOULD GIVE
YOU ADVICE FOR THAT BECAUSE I
DON'T WANT THEM TO HAVE TO DO A
PUDI WHICH IS WHAT THEY HAD TO
DO BUT THAT GOT TO ZONING SORRY
BUT THAT SAME DECISION MIGHT BE
REPLICATED MULTIPLE PLACES AND
SO I THINK THAT WHICH THEN JUST
GETS US TO TO TWO DISTRICTS WE
HAVE LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL AND
WE JUST HAVE HUPP WHICH IS WHAT
I ADVOCATED VERY, VERY EARLY
AND PARK OF COURSE BUT I I
WOULD I ABSOLUTELY VALUE THE
NOTION OF SIMPLIFYING A
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK BUT I JUST
WANT TO AGAIN SHARE OUR
EXPERIENCE THAT IT IS REALLY
HARD TO WRITE ZONING DISTRICTS
THAT COVER ALL SITUATIONS.
YEAH, I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF OPPORTUNITY TO REDUCE FROM
THIRTY FOUR BUT I'VE GOT A
PRETTY BIG EGO BUT I DON'T
THINK I CAN DELIVER YOU TO
ZONING DISTRICTS THAT'S GOING
TO COVER EVERY SITUATION IN THE
CITY.
>> YEAH AND YOU MAY HAVE HEARD
COMMENTER'S BECAUSE I AM
RELAYING THIS MESSAGE PEOPLE
ARE CALLING THIS A ONE SIZE
FITS ALL RIGHT ESPECIALLY
RESIDENTIAL AND TO BE CLEAR WE
WERE ASKED TO STREAMLINE ZONING
BUT IT IS VERY UNREALISTIC THAT
WE'RE GOING TO GO FROM THIRTY
FOUR TO FOUR ZONES AND SO YOU
MAY HAVE HEARD PEOPLE SAY LIKE
I KNOW THAT THERE'S NOT ONLY
GOING TO BE FOUR, THERE'S GOING
TO BE A FEW MORE.
AND I JUST WANT AND I HOPE
EVERYONE IN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION UNDERSTANDS THAT
IT'S LIKE THIS IS A DIRECTION
FOR US TO GO BUT I DON'T
FORESEE IN A CITY THIS
COMPLICATED THAT THERE WILL BE
FOUR ZONES UNLESS WE GO BACK TO
NINETEEN TWENTY THREE.
OH YES THERE ARE HOUSES
EVERYWHERE.
OK SO ARE WE TRYING TO MAKE IT
TO RICHARD THE LOGIC THAT YOU
USED OR TO REJECT?
WHAT I'M HEARING IS I WAS
HOPING TO DELIVER YOU A MAP AND
YOU GUYS ARE GOING TO SAY I
LIKE IT, I HATE IT MAKE THESE
CHANGES AND IT SOUNDS TO ME
LIKE YOU WANT US TO SHOW OUR
WORK A LITTLE BIT MORE.
YES, BECAUSE AND THAT'S FINE.
WE CAN DO THAT.
BUT I JUST I'M TRYING TO I AM
TRYING TO THINK ABOUT I WANT
HOW I DO THAT AND TO IT WILL
CHANGE THIS MAP IF WE IF WE IF
WE GO BACK TO MORE OF A
FAITHFULNESS TO THE EXISTING
ZONING FOR EXAMPLE.
>> WELL THAT'S WHY THERE ARE
FOUR AND CORRIDORS.
>> I MEAN WE WERE TRYING TO
RECOGNIZE THAT YOU WERE NOT
SAYING THAT.
WHAT I'M HEARING I'M HEARING
YOU WANT TO SEE A LITTLE LIKE
YOU ALMOST WANT TO DO THAT
EXERCISE RATHER THAN US
PRESENTING YOU THE PRODUCT.
YOU KNOW, IT'S KIND OF BUT I
THINK I THINK THIS
KIND OF I
LIKE THE I KNOW I'M REALLY SO
TIRED BUT AS WE ALL ARE BUT I
THINK WHAT WHAT I AM TRYING TO
EXPRESS IS THAT THE REASON WHY
IT'S IMPORTANT TO SHOW THE WORK
IS BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT TO
SHOW THAT FAIRNESS AND
CONSISTENCY WAS USED AND THERE
IS I THINK WE HAVE I THINK SARA
ARTICULATE A PRINCIPLED
COMMITMENT TO DENSITY WILL BE
INCREASED BUT NOT REDUCED AND I
THINK WE CAN ALL STAND BY THAT
AND I THINK THAT YOUR MAP
STANDS BY THAT AND I I I HEAR
YOU SAYING NO MATTER WHAT I
SHOW YOU, IT CAN'T IS CUT AND
DRIED AS YOU WERE TRYING TO LAY
OUT SO IT THERE HAS TO BE SOME
FUDGE FACTOR OR SOMETHING YOU
KNOW THE WAY WE TALK ABOUT
GENERALITIES.
YES.
BUT IT IT NEEDS TO BE CLEAR
THAT NO NO PEACE IS BEING
EITHER SINGLED OUT OR PUNISHED.
>> RIGHT.
AND ALSO THIS IS SUCH A GOOD
IDEA.
I MEAN THIS IS A REALLY GOOD
PLAN AND IT DOES A LOT AND I
REALLY, REALLY WANT IT TO GET
PASSED AND SO I AM WORRIED I AM
VERY WORRIED THAT YOU KNOW,
THERE'S A LOT OF SENSITIVITY
AROUND THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
JUST LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF SENSITIVITY AROUND NATURAL
FEATURES AND SO I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THEY'RE THAT NO ONE
FEELS NO ONE FEELS THAT THERE'S
BEEN SPECIAL TREATMENT AND NO
ONE FEELS THAT PEOPLE ENGAGED
IN A PUNITIVE ACT BECAUSE
THERE'S SOMETHING THAT WE DON'T
LIKE.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE I I'M TRYING
TO BE GENEROUS AND CLEAR AT THE
SAME TIME I THINK WE WERE JUST
TRYING TO AVOID LIKE GIVING
PRESENTING AN EXPECTATION THAT
YOU COULD BUILD SOMETHING MUCH
LARGER AND A HISTORIC DISTRICT
THAN IS ACTUALLY GOING TO GET
APPROVED.
THAT'S THAT'S IT.
I WE DIDN'T WANT TO PUT
TRANSITION IN AREAS WHERE WE'RE
LIKE THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN
MOST LIKELY I THINK YOU MAP THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT ANSWERS
THAT IF YOU PASSED THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ENTENTE JUST ON TOP
OF THE NEW COLOR YOU IS THAT A
SHAPED LIKE GOOD LUCK THEY ARE
GOING TO HATE IT OR WAS YOUR
SHAKE OK?
>> WE COULD DO IT KNOWING WE WE
CAN DO THAT.
>> I JUST WE ARE GOING TO THEN
EITHER HAVE TO CHANGE THIS MAP
OR WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO BE
CHANGING.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO BE
CALLING OUT OTHER AREAS OF THE
CITY I THINK IN UNIQUE WAYS
LIKE I WAS DOING WITH THESE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
SO I JUST WANT TO LIKE LIKE THE
EXAMPLE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
WITH THE FIVE CORNERS THAT IS A
ZONING IF WE IF WE ARE FAITHFUL
TO THE ZONING CONSTRUCT THAT
WOULD BE A TRANSITION DISTRICT
.
I WOULD NOT PERMIT THE TALLER
BUILDING.
I KNOW THERE'S TALK ABOUT STEP
BACKS AND LIKE BUT I I DON'T I
DON'T THINK I FEAR THAT THERE'S
NOT NOT ENOUGH CLARITY IN THIS
PLAN NOR SHOULD THERE BE WHERE
THAT WILL NECESSARILY PROVIDE
ENOUGH INFORMATION FOR PEOPLE
TO UNDERSTAND AND BE
COMFORTABLE WITH WHAT THAT
MEANS.
>> WELL WHAT WOULD THAT BE
COMFORTABLE WITH THE HASHING ON
TOP OF THE DOOR I KNOW THAT ARE
THE TALL THING I THINK I THINK
WE LIKE LET ME LET ME START
OVER.
I THINK I HEAR YOU WANT TO SEE
SORT OF MORE OF THE EVOLUTION
OF HOW THIS MAP WAS PRESENTED
AND WE CAN DO THAT.
I THINK WHAT THAT MEANS IS
WE'RE GOING TO I GOT TO FIGURE
OUT THE BEST WAY TO SORT
OF COMMUNICATE EFFECTIVELY TO
THIS QUESTION WHY WHERE WE
DEVIATED FROM THIS CONSTRUCT
AND WHY IT SEEMS LIKE THAT'S
WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
>> WELL, SOME PEOPLE MIGHT WANT
THAT.
I'M NOT LOOKING TO BLOW UP YOUR
MAP.
I BY THE WAY, I'M ALSO NOT
LOOKING FOR TO HAVE A DETAIL
LIKE ON THE MAP.
>> BY THE WAY, IT'S YOUR MAP
RIGHT NOW.
>> IT'LL BE MY MAP AT SOME
POINT BUT I'M NOT LOOKING TO
I'M NOT LOOKING I LIKE IT AND I
ACTUALLY THINK USING HEURISTICS
AND THAT'S WHAT I'LL CALL THE
RULES THAT YOU USE.
RIGHT.
SO WE HAVE VALUES AND WE'VE GOT
THINGS THAT WE CARE ABOUT AND
THEN YOU TOOK SO YOU USE SOME
HEURISTICS TO TAKE A
COMPLICATED PROBLEM AND MAKE
SOME COLORS ON A MAP THAT
GENERALLY ALIGN WITH AND I
ACTUALLY THINK THE HEURISTICS
YOU USED WHAT DOES IT ZONE
CURRENTLY AS A PROXY FOR?
WHERE DOES DENSITY MAKE SENSE
AND WHERE DO THESE ZONES MAKE
SENSE?
THAT ALL WORKS AND THAT ALL
TRACKS WITH AND THEN WE THEN WE
TAKE THE VALUES AND WE SAY ALL
RIGHT WINEMILLER WE WANT TO
THROTTLE UP A LITTLE BIT.
>> RIGHT.
THAT'S A CHOICE WE'RE MAKING
BASED ON VALUES, NOT BASED ON
THE MAP.
I ACTUALLY DON'T NEED TO SEE OR
HAVE CALLED TO RELITIGATE EVERY
CHOICE YOU MADE BUT TO CANCEL
MY BRUTISHNESS I THINK SEEING A
LITTLE BIT OF HOW THOSE RULES
INTERACT WITH THE VALUES AND
HOW IT INFORMS THE MAP PROMOTES
THE IDEA OF BOTH TRANSPARENCY
AND FAIRNESS WHICH AT BOTTOM IS
REALLY WHAT MY COMMENT ABOUT
THE FOURTH BOARD IS ABOUT.
I JUST WANT TO TREAT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THE SAME AND
I ALSO DON'T THINK IT'S OUR JOB
TO MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT WHAT
THOSE HISTORIC DISTRICTS MEAN
IN TERMS OF DEVELOPMENT MEANING
THE LEGAL STATUS THAT I HAVE NO
SAY AND THAT'S NOT PART
OF REALLY MY MANDATE AT ALL.
IT'S A SEPARATE THING BUT RIGHT
NOW IF OUR FOUR GENERALLY MEANS
YELLOW THEN I THINK IT SHOULD
GENERALLY YELLOW ON A HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
>> THAT'S ALL I'M SAYING.
AND I JUST WANT TO ECHO THAT.
I DON'T NEED TO SEE YOUR WORK
EITHER AND I'M NOT ASKING FOR
THAT HOW WE GOT TO THIS MAP I
THINK THAT THAT'S ANSWERING A
DIFFERENT CONSTITUENCY AND
THAT'S NOT MY CONCERN AT ALL.
>> SO I'M NOT COSIGNING THAT
PART.
AND IS IT FOUR CORNERS OR FIVE
CORNER?
OK, THANK YOU.
OK SO NOW THAT I KNOW WHERE IT
IS I MEAN HONESTLY THIS IS ONE
WHERE SHOULD IT MAYBE BE ORANGE
INSTEAD OF YELLOW.
>> I MEAN IN TERMS OF LIKE IS
IS THAT WHERE WE WANT A HUB
LIKE IT'S ALREADY IT'S I MEAN
IF WE LOOK AROUND HOW WE HAVE
HUBS HUGGING U OF M CAMPUS THAT
FEELS LIKE THE NEXT PLACE TO
HAVE ORANGE IF WE'RE GOING TO
EVOLVE THINGS BECAUSE IT'S ALL
IT'S BETWEEN PATCHES OF BLUE
AND SO I DON'T I SO AGAIN I'M
NOT I DON'T WANT TO DOUBLE
CHECK YOUR WORK LIKE I LIKE THE
IDEA OF THE HEURISTICS BUT IT'S
IT'S MORE LIKE I WONDER
ACTUALLY IF THAT EXERCISE IS
NOT THAT IT'S AN EXERCISE BUT
IF THAT KIND OF THING HELPS US
SEE LIKE ACTUAL MAYBE THIS
SHOULD BE ORANGE INSTEAD
OF YELLOW.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHERE DOES THE
D-DAY MAP GO?
THEY'RE THE PROJECTED
ENLARGEMENT OF DOWNTOWN BY THE
DDA.
>> WELL, THEY HAVEN'T SELECTED
THEIR NEW BOUNDARIES.
THEY'RE WORKING ON THAT ONE
OF THE ONE DO THEY EXTEND DOWN
THE AREA THAT THEY'RE
CONSIDERING?
>> THAT'S ONE MAYBE BUT NOT ALL
OF THE DENHA IS CURRENTLY HUB,
RIGHT?
>> YEAH, YEAH, YEAH.
I MEAN THERE'S JUST OK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NEVER MY COMMISSION ORDERED SO
ARCHER SAID HE DIDN'T WANT TO
SEE YOUR WORK BUT I DO GET IT
BUT I THINK I'M IN LINE WITH
MR. ADAMS ON THE LEVEL
OF DETAIL.
I'M NOT ASKING THAT EVERY
PARCEL BE THAT YOU EXPLAIN HOW
YOU GOT TO EVERY PART OF THE
ROAD MAP OF HOW WE GOT YEAH.
ROAD MAP OF HERE'S THE HERE'S
THE HEURISTIC WE USED WE
STARTED WITH THESE PRINCIPLES
AND THEN WHERE IT MADE SENSE WE
DEVIATED FROM THEM.
SO I'M THINKING LIKE A
PARAGRAPH AND AND A COUPLE
OF THE MAPS THAT SHOW THAT THE
KEY FEATURES THAT KIND
OF INFORM THAT AND THEN I WOULD
ASK THAT YOU GO BACK LIKE THIS
FIVE CORNERS AREA AND ALSO
WE'VE HAD SOME REALLY
THOUGHTFUL, OBSERVANT
COMMENTERS ON OUR PROCESS MAKE
SPECIFIC COMMENTS ABOUT PLACES
WHERE WE'RE WHAT THIS MAP IS
PROPOSING MAYBE DIDN'T MAKE
SENSE PARTICULARLY IN TERMS
OF KIND OF SUGGESTING THAT THEY
MIGHT BE LOWER DENSITY THAN
WHAT THEY CURRENTLY ARE.
MAYBE JUST REVISIT THOSE AREAS
AND SEE IF IN FACT YOU DO WANT
TO CHANGE THE MAP TO BETTER
ACCOMMODATE WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO DO BECAUSE I THINK IN
GENERAL IF IT'S ALREADY BEEN
APPROVED FOR A 15 STORY
BUILDING, WHY IS IT SHOWN AS A
HUB?
>> WHY WE AND I THINK THAT WAS
WHAT COMMISSIONER GESHE WAS
SAYING ABOUT THE PRINCIPLE THAT
SARA GAVE US WHICH IS NOT DOWN
ZONING ANYTHING.
>> RIGHT.
IS THAT HOW I UNDERSTOOD?
YEAH.
I MEAN SO PLEASE PLEASE TAKE
YOU WOULD UNDERSTAND BETTER
WHAT THE COMMENTERS ARE
PROVIDING IN TERMS
OF SPECIFICS.
PLEASE JUST REVIEW THOSE
PARTICULAR COMMENTS AND SEE IF
THAT MAKES YOU THINK MAYBE WE
NEED TO TWEAK THIS MAP A LITTLE
AND THAT WAS WILL LEAVE WHEN HE
OH OK.
>> SORRY I JUST WANT TO GIVE
YOU A REFERENCE POINT IN CASE
YOU DIDN'T KNOW I SHOULDN'T
ASSUME THAT YOU DID KNOW.
>> YEAH SORRY.
NO IN FACT THIS IS THE RIGHT
THING AND THAT'S FINE BUT JUST
PLEASE REVISE IT JUST TO DOUBLE
CHECK IT IS HARD TO INTERPRET
WHAT THAT MEANS WHEN THERE'S
SOMETHING THAT IS A BIT OUT
OF CONTEXT.
I MEAN WE'VE DONE SOME PDS,
RIGHT?
WE'VE DONE SOME UNIQUE ZONING
THINGS AND SO THAT DOESN'T MEAN
THAT THERE'S A WHOLE DISTRICT
THERE.
IT MEANS WE HAVE A BUILDING
DISTRICT.
>> SO MY GUESS IS WHAT THEY'RE
REFERRING TO IS THE EXAMPLE
THAT THAT BRICK GAVE RIGHT
WHERE THEY'RE SAYING WE'RE DOWN
ZONING BECAUSE THERE'S ONE
INSTANCE WHERE THERE'S A
BUILDING THAT'S TALLER THAN
WHAT WE HAVE.
BUT I THINK IF I WERE TO APPLY
THAT AND WHETHER IT BE
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
JOPLIN AFTER I FINISH TO SEVEN
TWENTY ONE FOR US AND
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH SO
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH GOT
APPROVED BY THIS COMMISSION BUT
SEVEN TWENTY ONE FOR US BUT
DENIED BY THIS COMMISSION AND
THEY ARE LESS THAN ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED FEET FROM EACH OTHER
AND SO IF YOU LOOKED AT THAT
WHOLE TO BLOCK THE STRUCTURE
NOW WOULD IT NOW MAKE SENSE
BECAUSE IT WAS ALL OFFER C SO
IF WE JUST APPLY OUR FORCE TO
THE TRANSITION IT WOULD GO TO
EIGHTY BUT UH SEVEN ELEVEN
CHURCH
WAS CAME IN AT NINETEEN
AND THEN THEY DROPPED IT DOWN
THE SEVENTEEN AND SEVEN TWENTY
ONE FOR US I THINK MEANT REALLY
HIGH AND THEY DROPPED IT DOWN
TO LIKE TWELVE OR THIRTEEN AND
NOW WHEN I WALK THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH I DO THEY
THEY FEEL LIKE THEY ALWAYS
BELONGED THERE AND SO SO SO
LIKE HOW DO WE MAKE SURE THAT
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THOSE IF IT'S
JUST RADAR FOR C THEY WOULD
STILL NOT FIT IN IF THEY CAME
TO THE TABLE THEY WOULD BE
ASKING FOR PUDI SO THAT THAT'S
MY ONLY LIKE FEEDBACK AND IF
THAT GETS EXPLAINED THROUGH
WHAT COMMISSIONER NORTON JUST
ASKED FOR IN TERMS OF YOUR
SHOWING UP YOUR WORK THAT WILL
BE HELPFUL SO THAT WE CAN
SUPPORT WHAT YOU FEEL LIKE YOU
NEED TO DO AS PLANNING STAFF
AND WORKING DIRECTLY WITH
DEVELOPERS.
ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
>> YEAH, I JUST WANT TO KIND
OF DOVETAIL ON THAT SO WHEN
THIS WAS FIRST RELEASED I GOT A
CALL FROM A COUNCIL MEMBER NOT
THIS ONE WHO HAD SOMEBODY HAD
BEEN ASKING THEM WHY THEIR
PROPERTY LOOKED LIKE IT WAS ON
THE HASH THING OF AND WHAT THAT
MEANT AND I HAD TO KIND
OF STRUGGLE I FIGURED OUT THAT
IT WAS THE UNDERLINING ZONING
THAT HAD BEEN THERE BEFORE.
>> BUT JUST BEING ABLE TO
ANSWER THAT QUESTION WHEN
SOMEBODY SAYS WHY IS MY HOUSE,
MY BUSINESS, MY GYM OR WHATEVER
IN THIS WOULD BE HELPFUL LIKE
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE A LOT.
>> BUT THAT WAS KIND OF A
MOMENT FOR ME WHERE I WAS LIKE
YEAH, I'M ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I HAVE NO IDEA
WHY IT'S THAT COLOR AND AND IN
THAT CASE IT WAS THE UNDERLYING
ZONING DIDN'T MATCH WHAT I FELT
LIKE LOOKED RIGHT ON THERE BUT
JUST SOMETHING SO WE CAN TELL
PEOPLE WELL THIS IS WHY AND
HERE IS THE YOU KNOW, NOT NOT
PARCEL BY PARCEL OF COURSE BUT
JUST GENERALLY THIS IS LIKE THE
ELEVATOR SPEECH OF WYATTS THIS
CHARACTER AREA OR WOULD BE
HELPFUL AND I THINK IF THEY'RE
BACK TO COMMISSIONER WHICH IS
POINT IN THIS MIGHT NOT EVEN BE
IN THAT MANY CASES BUT I THINK
SPECIFICALLY IN THE CASE
OF FIVE CORNERS AND
SPECIFICALLY IN THE CASE OF THE
FOREST AND CHURCH PROJECTS AND
I CAN'T EVEN TELL FROM THIS MAP
IF THEY'RE COVERED IN THIS HUB
AREA.
BUT IF THERE ARE RECENT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS LIKE THINK
THAT THAT'S THAT COULD ALSO
MAYBE BE A RISTIC LIKE SURE
IT'S WHATEVER ZONING OR THE DB
WITH THIS BUILDING JUST GOT
BUILT LIKE WE'RE NOT GOING TO
IT'S GOING TO BE HERE FOR A
LONG TIME.
SO NATURALLY MAYBE IT MAKES
SENSE TO CREATE SIMILAR OTHER
SIZE SCALE BUILDINGS IN THAT
AREA AND THIS SHOULD NOW BE A
HUB AND IT DIDN'T JUST GET
BUILT ONLY BECAUSE OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE I MEAN THAT'S WHAT WE
WANT TO CONTEND TO HONOR THAT
YOU MAY GO ABOVE AND BEYOND IN
SOME THINGS AND THIS IS WHY
YOUR BODY MIGHT BE DIFFERENT.
YEAH, BUT THESE ARE PADS AND SO
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT
MEANS THAT IT BINDS US TO
SAYING OK, NOW THIS WHOLE
SECTION JUST BECOMES A HUB.
I MEAN BECAUSE THE HONESTLY THE
POLITICAL RESPONSE THAT'S GOING
TO BE AWFUL AND I JUST DON'T
THINK WE NEED TO SINK THIS
PLAN.
>> I MAKING THEM FEEL THAT
THESE UNIQUE I MEAN ATTITUDES
ARE UNIQUE TO BUILDING SPECIFIC
ZONING DISTRICT SHOULD SHOULD
WHAT THIS PLAN DOES BE DRIVEN
BY BEAUTY.
>> RIGHT.
BECAUSE THOSE ARE PUBLIC.
RIGHT.
OR SHOULD IT BE DRIVEN BY THE
OK, WELL THIS IS WE MEAN FOR
THIS TO BE TRANSITION BECAUSE
IT'S MOSTLY ARE AND IT'S A
TREND AND IT'S SO ARTIER YOU'LL
SEE ON THAT POINT I WOULD MAKE
HILL THE BARRIER THERE AND SO
LIKE I'M COMING TOWARDS YOU.
I'M NOT QUITE WHERE YOU ARE
BECAUSE I THINK YOU HAVE
DIFFERENT SENSIBILITIES THAN I
DO FOR THIS.
BUT THE THE IDEA THAT WE NOW
HAVE A SEVENTEEN STOREY
BUILDING AND A THIRTEEN STOREY
BUILDING AND A DEVELOPER COMES
AND SAYS I WANT TO BUILD THE
NEXT ONE AND WE SAY NO YOU CAN
ONLY GO TO EIGHTY THAT THAT
STILL DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
SO I THINK IF IF WE ARE TRYING
TO ACHIEVE WHAT YOU JUST
ARTICULATED WE MAY WANT TO WE
MAY WANT AT SOME POINT AND I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S NOW OR AFTER
THE FIRST REVISION TO TAKE AN
HOUR AND LOOK AT THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT AND THIS IS WHAT I
ASKED US TO DO DURING OUR WAS
OUR RETREAT THAT WE WOULD
ACTUALLY WALK THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS WAS ONE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT I SUGGESTED
AS WELL AS THE BEEKMAN
NEIGHBORHOOD IN LOWERTOWN SO
THAT WE COULD SEE THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT BECAUSE I THINK
THAT IS GOING TO BE HELPFUL
BECAUSE WE'RE LOOKING AT IT ON
A MAP WHICH IS WHAT TWO
DIMENSIONAL IF US BUT THEN WE
COULD GET INTO THE SPACE AND
SAY OH ABSOLUTELY.
>> IT MAKES SENSE FOR US TO DO
THIS HERE.
AND SO IF THAT MEANS MOVING IT
FROM TRANSITION TO HUB, THAT'S
A FEEDBACK THAT WE CAN GET.
>> TELL ME IF THIS MAKES SENSE
TO YOU.
DOES THAT FEEL LIKE WHAT WE'RE
DOING?
>> WELL, IT FEELS LIKE WHAT
WE'RE DOING RIGHT NOW IS KIND
OF ROUGH CUTS, ROUGH CUTS LIKE
WE'RE ROUGHING OUT THE FRAMING
AND THAT FEELS LIKE FINE
CARPENTRY.
WE'RE LIKE YOU MIGHT IN
RESPONSE TO WALKING DISTRICT
AND SEEING HOW IT'S LAID OUT
YOU MIGHT TAKE A LINE AND BUMP
IT OUT OR YOU MIGHT CHANGE THE
COLOR OF A CERTAIN NOT A SPOT.
>> I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT I'M
JUST TALKING ABOUT AGAIN FINE
TUNING THAT MAKES SENSE AS PART
OF A SECOND.
I'M NOT TRYING TO PUNT IT.
I'M NOT SAYING WHAT YOU'RE
SUGGESTING ISN'T PART OF THE
DISCUSSION.
>> I'M JUST SAYING NO, I'M
HAPPY TO TALK ONLINE.
>> YEAH, I'M THINKING ABOUT OK,
WHAT IS TRANSITION?
WHAT IS HUB, WHAT IS FLAKS AND
I'M NOT QUITE TO ON THIS MAP
ARE THERE SPECIFIC PARTS THAT
NEED TO BE MODIFIED BECAUSE IT
THE AGAIN THE ROUGH HEURISTICS
THAT YOU USE THE VALUES DIDN'T
CAPTURE SOMETHING SPECIFIC
ABOUT SAY THREE PODS THAT WE
DROPPED INTO A BLOCK SOMETHING
LIKE I'M JUST THINKING OUT LOUD
A LITTLE BIT.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHERE WE
ARE.
WE'RE STILL JUST THINKING OUT
LOUD AND I THINK IT'S HELPFUL
FOR IT'S HELPFUL FOR ME.
I'LL SPEAK FOR MYSELF FOR ME TO
HEAR YOU SAY WE ARE NOT GOING
TO HAVE FIVE ZONING DISTRICTS
FROM THIS PLAN.
IT WOULD BE BETTER FOR ME TO
SAY WE'RE ONLY GOING TO HAVE
THREE.
BUT YOU'RE HERE.
YOU'RE NOT SAYING THAT YOU'RE
SAYING SOMETHING TO SEE RIGHT
THAT OH, I CAN MEAN I DON'T
KNOW IF IT WILL WORK.
IT'S STILL AND SO SO RIGHT AND
SO THIS IS ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY
FOR EDUCATION BECAUSE I THINK I
DON'T WANT TO BURDEN YOU WITH
HAVING TO EXPLAIN EVERY SINGLE
THING AND I DON'T SEE THIS AS
SHOWING THE WORK BUT I THINK
FOR ME IT'S SORT OF LIKE HEY,
THESE LAND USE CHARACTERS HELP
US DECIDE WHAT ZONING IS GOING
TO BE HERE AND THIS IS ZONING.
IT MAY LOOK SIMILAR TO THESE
CHARACTER AREAS BUT THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO BE A ONE TO ONE MAP
AND I THINK THAT CAN HELP
REDUCE SOME OF THE ANXIETY THAT
PEOPLE HAVE LIKE OH THIS IS
SAYING THIS SO IT MEANS
EVERYTHING IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
IS GOING TO BE PLOWED OVER AND
IT'S ALL GOING TO GO UP AND YOU
ALL DON'T CARE ABOUT ANYTHING
HERE.
IT'S NO LIKE WE NEED TO HAVE
THIS FIRST IN ORDER TO FIGURE
OUT HOW WE'RE GOING TO PLACE
SET BACK AND RESTRICT WHAT
THOSE THINGS ARE JUST LIKE
BLOB'S LIKE I CAN'T EVEN TELL
WHERE THE STREETS ARE SO I
THINK THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
POINT.
>> SO ANYWAY I I LIKE I FELT
LIKE I LIKE THIS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION I'M I'M GELLING
HERE SO YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO YOU
I'M STILL SPECIFIC.
HOW DID YOU GET HERE.
I'M SO WORRIED ABOUT THE SINCE
THEN I HAVE TO CHANGE THIS
WHOLE MAP.
>> OH THAT WAS CLOSE TO THE
SENTENCE RIGHT.
>> I'M JUST WORRIED ABOUT WHERE
THAT WAS COMING FROM BECAUSE
THAT'S NOT THAT WASN'T MY
INTENT AND SO NO NO I MY MY
APOLOGIES I MAYBE THAT WAS A
STATEMENT BASED OUT OF I THINK
I WAS A LITTLE BIT LOST IN THE
AND I WAS I FELT LIKE WE WERE
WE'VE DONE WHAT YOU'RE ASKING
FOR AND SO I THINK I WAS HAVING
A LITTLE BIT OF FRUSTRATION
WITH LIKE YOU KNOW, WE HAVE
USED SOME HEURISTICS, WE HAVE
MADE SOME JUDGMENTS AND AND I
WAS I WAS HEARING LIKE YOU
DIDN'T WANT THAT YOU WANTED AT
LEAST AS REALLY ITS HISTORIC
DISTRICTS MORE OF A
FAITHFULNESS TO CONSISTENCY.
THE ZONING EQUALLY.
AND SO I THINK I WAS SPEAKING
TOWARDS I WAS I FELT LIKE WE
HAD DONE SOME OF THAT BUT WE
WERE GETTING PULLED IN THE
DIFFERENT DIRECTION I'M I THINK
THIS HAS BEEN A REALLY HELPFUL
CONVERSATION.
UNDERSTAND HOW YOU'RE THINKING
ABOUT THESE THINGS.
IT'S ALSO HELPED ME TO
CALIBRATE FRANKLY HOW TO THINK
ABOUT SOME OF THOSE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE WE MIGHT
HAVE DEVELOPMENT IN THE AREA
OF THE CITY APART FROM FIVE
CORNERS OR SO FOR US THAT IS
OUT OF SCALE WITH THE EXISTING
ZONING AND I AM FEARFUL RIGHT
NOW FOR ME TO IDENTIFY ALL
THOSE AND UNDERSTAND AND BE
ABLE TO CALL THOSE UP TO YOU TO
SAY HEY THIS THIS IS A LAND USE
RECOMMENDATION THAT'S GOING TO
BE LESS DENSE THAN WHAT'S
THERE.
AND SO THAT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A
FEAR I HAVE.
BUT I I'M SORRY FOR ANY
FRUSTRATION IN THAT REGARD.
>> THAT'S I THINK I HAVE A GOOD
IDEA OF WHAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR
.
>> RIGHT.
COULD WE PLEASE REMOVE THE
PLEASE PROCEED TO THE FOLLOWING
PAGES DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS
OF EACH DISTRICT SENTENCE FROM
THE BOTTOM OF THAT MAP.
IT JUST FEELS VERY LIKE
SOMETHING WEIRD.
>> I CAN'T IT'S ON PAGE ONE.
YES, I UNDERSTAND THE MAP LIKE
RIGHT UNDER US TWENTY THREE
NEAR THE NINETY FOUR
INTERCHANGE.
WELL THAT'S WHERE IT IS.
I DIDN'T PUT IT ON MY LIST THAT
ALSO CAUGHT MY EYE BUT I WAS
TRYING TO I JUST NOTICED IT
LIKE
ABOUT AN HOUR AGO AT THIS
POINT BUT SURE PAGE WANTED TO
RIGHT.
>> YEAH YEAH.
OH SORRY YOU SAID CHAIR I WHAT
YOU SAID SURE WE COULD TALK
ABOUT EVERY ONE OF THESE
DISTRICTS BY TALKING ABOUT PAGE
ONE OR TWO BUT I FEEL LIKE
WE'RE GOING TO DUPLICATE OK I'M
DEFER TO YOU BUT WE COULD ALSO
GO TO THE ACTUAL PAGE, TALK
ABOUT THEM AND ANY CHANGES THAT
WE MAKE.
YEAH.
TO THE DISTRICTS WILL GET
CARRIED OVER THE SUMMARY AND SO
WE CAN GO TO ONE TO EIGHT AND
START THERE.
IS THAT OK?
OK WITH THAT ANY OBJECTION BUT
I AM NOT THE GRAPHIC ON ONE TWO
THREE.
OK WELL LET ME LET'S HEAR FROM
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
>> GO AHEAD.
I DO HAVE A COMMENT.
IT'S MY PAGE HERE.
I JUST THOUGHT THE AND THE
FUTURE NEWS PLAN IS BROADLY
DIVIDED IN THREE MAIN MIXED USE
DISTRICTS THAT ARE PRINCIPAL
RESIDENTIAL EACH VARYING IN
SCALE AND THEN SMALL SCALE
RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM SCALE
TRANSITION SCALE HUB BUT THEY
ALL HAVE RESIDENTIAL IN THEM.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT'S REALLY
WHAT THOSE THREE CATEGORIES ARE
DESCRIBING.
I THINK THEY'RE MORE DESCRIBING
LIKE THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY THAT
YOU MIGHT DESCRIBE.
I KIND OF A LITTLE BIT OF A
QUIP SAID WELL THE FIRST ONE IS
GENTLE HUM.
THE SECOND IS INCREASING BUZZ
AND THE THIRD IS HAPPENING.
SO JUST RETHINK.
I DON'T THINK THE LABELS THEY
OR THE THOSE CATEGORIES REALLY
CAPTURE WHAT THE WHAT THE KEY
DISTINCTION IS BETWEEN THEM IS
THAT MAKING SENSE MACHOL?
>> YEAH.
>> ACTIVE PEOPLE CAN ACTUALLY
LIVE IN A TRANSITION OR YEAH SO
THAT WAS MY COMMENT ON THAT.
WELL I GUESS WE'RE STILL
DISCUSSING THAT BUT I CAN MAKE
A NOTE TO TO UPDATE THAT FIRST
SENTENCE BUT WE ARE SORT
OF STILL TALKING ABOUT WHAT A
SMALL SCALE MEDIUM SCALE AND
LARGE SCALE MEAN.
>> YEAH, BUT IN THIS DISCUSSION
WE'RE KIND OF THE INTENSITY
OF THE ACTIVITY IS WHAT WE'RE
REALLY INTENSITY WITH ACTIVITY
AND SCALE OF THE BUILDING
INTENSITY.
>> YEAH BUT RIGHT NOW BUT NOT
RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION AND YOU
KNOW, I JUST THINK WHAT WHAT
ARE THOSE WHAT'S THAT SIGNALING
BY THE LABELS THAT ARE BEING
USED?
>> PLEASE?
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK THAT'S STILL I HAVE
SOME LANGUAGE THINGS ON ONE
FORM BUT WE DON'T NEED TO TALK
ABOUT THEM.
>> YEAH, OR THEY ARE THERE.
>> OK, OK.
>> I WAS GOING TO MAKE A MOTION
TO CHANGE TO THREE STORIES.
>> OH YES.
YOU SAY THAT DO WE NEED TO
CHANGE IT TO THREE STORIES OR
CAN WE JUST TAKE IT OUT.
>> I WAS GOING TO ASK IF WE
COULD JUST SAY FOR I DON'T WANT
TO TAKE IT OUT I DON'T WANT TO
SAY THREE OR FOUR ONE OR NINE.
I JUST WANT TO DO ON ONE BUT I
YEAH.
>> OH I APOLOGIZE.
IT'S OK.
>> EVERYBODY IS ON MY WAY ALSO
BUT THAT'S MY FAULT.
>> I WAS I JUST WANT TO TRACK
WITH THE COUNCIL RECORD AND I
JUST WANT TO GET PAST IT THAT'S
MY MY MY AND DAVID POINT
OF VIEW ON THAT.
I JUST FEEL LIKE WE TOUCH THE
ELECTRIC FENCE IF WE JUST DON'T
EXECUTE AND I JUST HAVE THIRTY
FIVE FEET OR WAS IT THREE
STORY.
NO HE'S SAYING THREE STORIES
I'M SAYING THREE STORIES TO SAY
WHICH I THINK IS CONSISTENT
WITH THE PREAMBLE IN THE
RESOLUTION I THINK IT'S
CONSISTENT WITH THE DIRECTION
AND THE INTENT AND IT'S IN
KEEPING WITH THE GENERAL NATURE
OF THE PLAN THAT I JUST WANT TO
SAY THREE STORIES SO YOU WANT
TO MAKE DO YOU WANT TO MAKE A
MOTION OR DO YOU WANT TO DO IS
GROPPLE I'LL START WITH A STRAW
POLL, OK?
>> YES.
THEN DO YOU WANT US TO GO
STRAIGHT TO VOTING OR YEAH.
CAN WE TALK ABOUT WE CAN TALK
ABOUT IT I TALKED ABOUT AT THE
LAST MEETING I THINK AT THIS
POINT WE'VE ALL READ THE
RESOLUTION AND WE'VE GOT OUR
POINT OF VIEW ON WHAT WE WANT
TO DO WITH IT.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT WE NEED TO
TALK ABOUT IT.
I I THINK I JUST HAVE ONE
QUESTION FAR AWAY AND THIS IS
THAT TO MICHELLE AND MR.
LEONARD IF WE RESTRICT IT HERE
IN THE COMP PLAN AND IT ROLLS
INTO THE ZONING, DO WE CREATE
NONCONFORMITY FOR LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL THAT IS GREATER
THAN THREE STORIES AND THAT
DOES THAT FORCE PEOPLE INTO
ZIBA FOR CHANGES SINCE HE'S
EATING A DONUT?
>> UM, I BELIEVE IT WOULD NOT
CREATE NONCONFORMITY BECAUSE
MOST IF NOT ALL RESIDENTIAL
ZONES RIGHT NOW HAVE A THIRTY
FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT.
BUT BUT THERE ARE SO ARE THERE
I'M SORRY I GUESS THEN I THINK
MY QUESTION IS THERE ARE
ALREADY NONCONFORMITY IN
RESIDENTIAL.
DO THEY HAVE TO GO TO ZIBA FOR
CHANGES?
>> YEAH I'VE BEEN THERE THREE
TIMES.
THEY YOU KNOW OK SO THIS JUST
PERPETUAL IT'S THAT IT OFFERS
NO RELIEF ALTHOUGH WE JUST
FIXED IT SO FEWER OF THEM HAVE
TO GO BUT THIS WOULD NOT
PRODUCE ANY ADDITIONAL RELIEF.
OK SO THAT IS THAT'S RIGHT.
>> NOW THAT IS MY OBJECTION.
I GOT HIT ON SOME FACTS I THINK
SETBACKS AND THOSE THINGS ARE
PROBABLY THE BIG RIGHT IN TERMS
OF I JUST I JUST THINK WE HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO REMOVE THESE
KINDS OF HITS ON THESE THESE
ACTUALLY THIS MORE THAN
ANYTHING TO ME HAS REAL
DEMONSTRATIVE IMPACT ON
HOMEOWNERS.
>> YEAH, IT IT COSTS IF YOU
LOST YOUR ACTUAL MONEY TO HAVE
TO DO PLANS TO HAVE TO GO TO
ZIBA TO HAVE TO PRODUCE THAT
AND IF WE COULD ACTUALLY OFFER
RELIEF BY REMOVING SOME OF THIS
I FEEL LIKE THAT IS A NET WIN
AND THIS HAS NOTHING FOR ME TO
DO WITH HEIGHT.
>> THIS IS ABOUT ACTUALLY
MAKING THE ZONING WORK FOR
PEOPLE AS OPPOSED TO THE ZONING
WORKING FOR ITSELF.
>> YEAH, I THINK IF YOU IF THAT
WAS A GOAL I DON'T THINK THIS
CHANGE THIS PROPOSED CHANGE THE
THREE STOREY IS GOING TO DO
THAT.
I THINK IF YOU WANTED TO DO
THAT YOU WOULD ADD LANGUAGE
THAT SAID REDUCE OR ELIMINATE
SETBACKS.
>> OK, OH SORRY COULD I MAKE
SURE I WANT TO JUST BRING THIS
UP AS AN IDEA AND SEE WHAT
FOLKS THINK BUT COULD WE SAY
SOMETHING ALONG THE LINES
OF NORMALLY THE HEIGHT IN THESE
DISTRICTS ARE THREE STORIES THE
PLAN SHOULD YOU KNOW THE CITY
SHOULD CONSIDER ALLOWING UP TO
FOUR STORIES A SPECIAL USE
THROUGH A SPECIAL USE PERMIT
PROCESS OR SOMETHING BECAUSE
THERE MAY BE PLACES WHERE A
FOUR STORY STRUCTURE WOULD
ACTUALLY BE JUST FINE.
>> AND SO THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
SOME OF THE PEOPLE THAT HAVE
ATTENDED OUR MOST RECENT
SESSION WE'RE BRINGING UP THAT
EVEN IF THIRTY FEET IS THE
HEIGHT LIMIT, THERE ARE MANY
SINGLE STORY NEIGHBORHOODS
RANCH NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE FOR
STORIES MIGHT ACTUALLY BE
TOWERING OVER YOUR PROPERTY AND
THERE ARE OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS
WHERE THEY WOULD FIT IN AND SO
THAT IS KIND OF A NUANCE THAT
WOULD COME TO ZONING.
BUT WE CAN KIND OF ADDRESS THAT
VARIATION IN HEIGHT HERE.
>> YEAH, I LIKE THE IDEA PEOPLE
HAVE MENTIONED.
>> I THINK IT'S ALREADY SET IN
THE PLAN TO ALSO ADD FOREIGN
BASED REQUIREMENTS AS
APPROPRIATE FOR THESE MULTI
STRUCTURES.
WE DON'T NEED TO SOLVE THAT
HERE.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO SIGNAL IN
THE PLAN THAT THAT'S SOMETHING
FOR US TO FURTHER EXPLORE.
SO I GUESS MY FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT WOULD BE NORMALLY A
THREE STORY STRUCTURE BUT WE
SHOULD EXPLORE PLACES OR WAYS
THAT SOMETHING TALLER MIGHT BE
ALLOWED THROUGH A SPECIAL USE
PERIMETER'S.
>> MOST TIMES I WOULD SUPPORT
THAT.
>> IS THAT GOOD WITH EVERYBODY
ELSE OR WELL I HAVE TO
HESITANCIES BUT I'M YOU KNOW,
THIS IS A THIS IS A
CONVERSATION ONE OF MY
HESITANCIES IS THAT SPECIAL USE
PERMITS ARE THEY'RE KIND
OF CUMBERSOME.
I MEAN WE'VE TAKEN THINGS OUT
OF THE SPECIAL USE CATEGORY TO
MAKE IT EASIER TO REALIZE THEM
ISN'T IT ALSO VARIANCE BY LAW?
IT'S NOT A SPECIAL USE.
IT'S A VARIANCE.
>> IT'S A VARIANCE FROM A
DIMENSIONAL STANDARD.
OH RIGHT.
SO IT WOULDN'T EVEN BE A
SPECIAL USE, RIGHT?
NO, I THINK YOU CAN DO IT.
YOU'RE MISSING IT.
YEAH.
I THINK QUITE SURE NORTON IS
SUGGESTING IS THE PLAN MIGHT
SAY THREE STORIES IS
APPROPRIATE FOR LOW RISE
RESIDENTIAL FOR TEN STORIES
WHATEVER IS APPROPRIATE WITH A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PERMIT.
AND SO I THINK HE WAS
SUGGESTING THAT THE PLANE COULD
SAY WE SHOULD ALLOW FOR UP TO
FOUR STORIES IN THIS AREA BUT
THAT MIGHT BE SUBJECT TO A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT FOR ME
THAT'S GETTING INTO AN AWFUL
IT'S BORDERING ON SOME
SPECIFICITY OF IMPLEMENTATION
VERSUS GIVING US A CARDINAL
DIRECTION OF WHAT WE ENVISION
THESE NEIGHBORHOODS BECOMING.
BUT DEFINITELY COULD BE
CONSIDERED.
>> AND SO THAT WAS WHY I WAS
PROPOSING THREE TO FOUR BECAUSE
IT IT DOES WHAT COUNCIL WANTS.
IT HAS THREE IN THE PLAN BUT IT
GIVES US FLEXIBILITY IN THESE
DISTRICTS AND THEN PERFECTLY
REASONABLE I THINK THIS I BUT I
I THINK I WANT TO KEEP MY
EMOTIONS STRAIGHT.
SURE.
I JUST WANT TO I JUST YOU DON'T
HAVE A MOTION YET.
>> YOU HAVE A STRAW POLL AND
YOU WANT TO MAKE IS JUST FLAT
OUT THREE STORIES.
YEAH.
AND THERE'S NEVER ANY CHANCE
THAT WE COULD EVER CONSIDER
SOMEONE HAVING A GOOD REASON TO
PUT IN FOR NO I DON'T THINK
THAT THAT'S NECESSARILY TRUE
BUT BUT WITHOUT GETTING INTO
THE KIND OF SPECIFICITY THAT
PREVIOUS TRY TO AVOID I'M YEAH
BECAUSE IT COULD BE THAT IF YOU
HAVE AN AFFORDABLE UNIT ONE OUT
OF FOUR IS AN AFFORDABLE UNIT,
WE MIGHT LET YOU GO TO FOUR
STORIES.
RIGHT.
BUT THAT'S ZONING DECISION.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THE
SUSTAINABLE BONUS?
SAME THING.
WOULD THAT WORK IF IT WAS A NET
ZERO ELSE?
>> I WOULD I MEAN I THINK
THAT'S IMPLEMENTATION.
>> I MEAN I KNOW BUT I'M JUST
LIKE SO ALL OF THESE ALL
OF THESE THINGS SOUND TO ME
LIKE YOU ARE STRUGGLING WITH
WHAT THE CHARACTER OF THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS SHOULD BE.
>> MM HMM.
I LIKE MAYBE THREE STORIES OR
FOUR STORIES.
I MEAN THERE'S OPINIONS ON
THIS.
THERE'S
THERE'S OPINIONS IN THE
COMMUNITY THAT THEY SHOULD BE
PROBABLY ONE FOR.
>> OH, SO I I I MEAN WHETHER
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
SUSTAINABILITY BONUS OR THE
AFFORDABILITY HEIGHT BONUS OR
THE POTENTIAL FOR A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEWS LIKE I WOULD I
GUESS I WOULD ENCOURAGE US TO
FOCUS ON WHAT DO WE THINK FOR
THE CHARACTER OF THESE
DISTRICTS ARE CITY COUNCIL ALSO
HAS AN OPINION?
>> WELL, LET'S HEAR FROM OTHERS
BEFORE DO ANY KIND OF VOTING.
>> I MEAN IF WE SAY THREE
STORIES HERE, ALL THAT REALLY
DOES IS DOWN THE ROAD WHEN
SOMEBODY DOES THEIR CONDOS
ACROSS FROM MY HOUSE THAT ARE
THREE STORIES AT GROUND LEVEL
BUT THERE IS A GARAGE ON THE
BASEMENT BUT OF COURSE THAT
FACES THAT'S AN EXPOSED
BASEMENT AREA THAT FACES THE
STREET.
SO FROM THE STREET THEREFORE
STORIES THERE ARE THREE STORIES
FROM THE BUILDING.
SO WHAT IF WE SAY THREE STORIES
WE CAN SAY THREE STORIES
COUNCIL WILL BE HAPPY, PEOPLE
WILL BE HAPPIER.
>> IT KICKS THE CAN DOWN THE
ROAD TO WHEN SOMEONE SAYS WELL
THIS IS THREE STORIES AND THEN
THE NEIGHBORS COME AND SAY WELL
IT'S FOUR STORIES BECAUSE YOU
HAVE THIS UNDERGROUND GARAGE
THAT IS FACING MY HOUSE AND
FROM MY HOUSE IT'S FOUR STORIES
BUT LIKE THAT COULD HAPPEN NOW
ANYWAY.
BUT I MEAN IT DOESN'T THIS IS
THE ZONING CODE .
SO DOWN THE ROAD WE HAD TO SAY
I MEAN THAT BUT IT JUST IT
DOESN'T IT WILL IT WILL MEAN IN
THE FUTURE PEOPLE WILL COME AND
SAY HERE'S THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
>> YOU SAID IT WILL ONLY BE
THREE STORIES AND I MEAN THAT'S
TRUE BUT THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE
THE UNDERLYING ZONING
CODE WHATEVER THE UNDERLYING
ZONING CODE ENDS UP BEING FOR
THE NEXT TWENTY FIVE YEARS.
>> I THERE IS ALSO A LOT
OF HOUSING IN OUR COMMUNITY
THAT'S THREE STORIES AND UNDER
AND I JUST WANT TO LOSE SIGHT
THAT YOU KNOW I KNOW THERE'S A
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION ABOUT
THAT BUT THAT IT'S STILL TALL
FOR A SUMMARY THIS PLAN IS
PROPOSING TO OPEN UP A LOT
OF FLEXIBILITY OF DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL AND WE REALIZE A LOT
OF HOUSING AT THOSE SMALLER
SCALES.
>> I FACT YOU CAN GET MORE FOR
IT WITH HORROR STORIES THAN YOU
CAN WITH THREE STORIES BUT I
DON'T WANT TO LOSE SIGHT THAT
THIS IS TAKING A BIG LEAP
FORWARD TO SAY EVERY EVERY
PARCEL BASICALLY IN THE CITY
CAN NOW REALIZE MORE THAN JUST
A SINGLE UNIT EVEN LIMITED TO
THREE STORIES.
>> YEAH, RIGHT.
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
OK, THE OTHER THING I WANTED TO
ASK IS IT'S MORE A PROCESS.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT HELPS OR
HINDERS THE CONVERSATION WE
HAVE TWO COLUMNS ON ONE ON LINE
ONE HAS THE BUILDING SIZE UNDER
THE PRIMARY BUT NOT UNDER THE
SECONDARY.
AND I WONDER IF WE COULD GO
BUILDINGS UP TO THREE STORIES
UNDER THE PRIMARY AND BUILDINGS
UP TO FOUR UNDER THE SECONDARY
IS AT A DIFFERENCE WITHOUT A
DISTINCTION DOES THAT I WAS
REALLY CONFUSED ACTUALLY ABOUT
THIS PART.
WHAT ARE ATTACHED HOUSES VERSUS
TOWNHOUSES?
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE LIKE?
WHY IS ONE SECONDARY ONE WHY IS
ONE PRIMARY?
>> YEAH WELL ONE WAY WOULD BE
IF IF IF THEY'RE REFORM
REGULATIONS THAT ARE RESPONSIVE
TO THE PATTERN OF DEVELOPMENT.
A LOT OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS
DON'T HAVE TOWNHOMES IN THEM.
>> SO ONE OF THE WAYS THAT
MIGHT REALLY BE REALIZED IS
THAT OUR REGULATIONS MIGHT LEAD
TO MORE TRIBAL COMPLEXES.
I DON'T KNOW THE WORDS FOUR,
FIVE AND SIX AND EIGHT.
>> OH, THANK YOU.
SO THAT THAT THAT COULD BE OR
YOU KNOW TO YOUR TO YOUR
REACTION MAYBE WE THAT'S A FORM
EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT PREVALENT
IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS WE WANT TO
INTRODUCE IT ACROSS THE BOARD.
>> I MEAN I AM PRO TOWNHOUSES.
I MEAN I GREW UP IN DC WE HAD
ROWHOUSES MY ALL THE PROBLEMS
ALL OF MY FAMILY MEMBERS OWNED
ROW HOUSES OR DUPLEXES THAT
WERE ROW HOUSES AND THEY ARE
BEAUTIFUL AND ALL THROUGH
BROOKLYN ALL THE BROWNSTONE
CHICAGO I MEAN THEY'RE THEY'RE
JUST REALLY WONDERFUL AND I
COULD SEE THOSE GOING UP TO
FOUR STORIES AND YOU COULD PUT
THAT UNDER THE SECONDARY USES
WITH THE TOWNHOUSES AND THEN
YOUR PRIMARY YOU COULD STILL
SAY UP TO THREE STORIES.
>> I FEEL LIKE IT STILL GIVES
YOU ALL THE FLEXIBILITY THAT
YOU NEED.
SEE ONE LITTLE THING YOU JUST
THAT IS WHY THERE'S I THINK
THERE'S A DUPLEXES THAT ARE ROW
HOUSES LIKE I THINK I GET THIS
I GET THESE DIFFERENT TYPES BUT
IT'S LIKE I'M JUST READING THIS
LIST AND LOOKING LIKE WE'RE
GUESS WE'RE TRYING TO DO HERE.
>> I THINK GIVING SPECIFIC
NAMES LIKE THIS LIKE A SPEC
FLOOD, A TOWNHOUSE LIKE THAT'S
CONFUSING THE ISSUE IN A WAY
THAT IT DOESN'T NEED TO BE
CONFUSED.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT I'M
SUGGESTING BECAUSE I'M TIRED
BUT IS THAT I GUESS PART
OF THIS FOR ME TOO WAS THE MR.
LEONARD'S POINT.
I FEEL LIKE THE THE UNIT LIMIT
IS REALLY WHERE YEAH.
>> WHERE IT'S AT AND I DON'T
THINK I STRUGGLED EVEN IN MY
OWN RESEARCH TO RUN THE HEIGHT
LIMITS TO FIND EXAMPLES
OF BUILDINGS THAT I REALLY
CARED ABOUT.
THIS GOES ALL THE WAY BACK TO
JANUARY LIKE ONE OF MY BANNING
WHAT AM I EXCLUDING AND I
DIDN'T FEEL LIKE I I'M NOT
HAPPY ABOUT IT.
>> I'M NOT HAPPY ABOUT IT BUT
I'M NOT SO COMMITTED TO THE
HEIGHT LIMIT BEING CRITICAL
HERE AS I AM AROUND NOT
ESTABLISHING A UNIT LIMIT
THROUGH THIS PLAN THAT TO ME
FEELS CRITICAL AND THE HEIGHT
LIMIT DOESN'T AND AND OF COURSE
COUNCIL HAS STEPPED IN AND MADE
A POLITICAL JUDGMENT AROUND IT
ALONG WITH THE FACT JUDGMENTS
THAT I JUST FEEL KIND OF TIED
TO.
SO I THAT'S WHY I KEEP CIRCLING
BACK TO LIKE JUST DOING A
STRAIGHT MOTION TO MOVE IT
ALONG BECAUSE I JUST DON'T I
DON'T CARE TO INCUR THE COST
OVER WHAT DOESN'T FEEL
PARTICULARLY AND OTHER FOLKS
MAY DISAGREE BUT IT DOESN'T
FEEL MATERIAL TO ME THAT'S JUST
WHERE I'M AT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
DO WE WANT TO DO THE STRAW
POLL?
THIS IS JUST CHANGING BUILDING
THREE FOUR STORIES TO THREE
STORIES.
RIGHT.
OK, THAT'S WHAT COMMISSIONER
ADAMS IS ASKING US TO VOTE ON.
>> OK, YES.
WE'RE IT'S IT'S FOUR STORIES IN
ONE WAY AND IT SAYS FOUR
STORIES ON ONE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR I MEAN
ONE, TWO, THREE.
DID YOU SAY IT'S FINE?
YEAH.
OK, SO THE MAJORITY HAS ALL
RIGHT.
>> THERE YOU GO.
WE ARE UNDULY TYING OUR HANDS
IN A WAY WE DON'T NEED TO BE
BUT I UNDERSTAND THE REASON FOR
WHAT WE'RE UP TO SOME CAN KIND
CAN I FOLLOW UP?
I'LL GO AHEAD.
NO, NO, NO PLEASE.
IT'S NOT ON RIGHT SO YOU CAN
FOLLOW UP IF YOU WANT.
IT'S NOT ON EITHER.
OK, I WANT TO FOLLOW UP THEN
ABOUT THE NO LIMIT ON THE
NUMBER OF HOMES.
>> IT'S JUST LIKE YEAH YEAH.
SO THIS THIS IS ENRAGING PEOPLE
I WILL SAY IN ADDITION TO THE
HEIGHT IT'S BECAUSE DATING BACK
TO OUR JANUARY TWENTY THIRD
MEETING I THINK WHEN WE DISCUSS
THIS UM PEOPLE ARE REALLY
SCARED OF LOCKWOOD A
BLOCKBUSTER OF BUYING UP ENTIRE
BLOCKS AND PUTTING APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
THIS IS A MAIN TAKE AWAY FROM
THE PUBLIC THAT WE ARE
PROMOTING AND I THINK IT COMES
FROM HERE EVEN THOUGH WE DID
DISCUSS LIKE WE WANT FORM BASE
CODE WE'VE DISCUSSED LIKE THE
RATIONALE FOR FOR IT.
RIGHT THAT THERE ARE OTHER WAYS
TO REGULATE BUT I DO THINK
WE'RE GOING TO NEED SOME
CLARITY ON THAT IN PARTICULAR
WE DISCUSS LOT COMBINATIONS.
THAT'S ANOTHER HUGE THING.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE REALLY
CONCERNED THAT SEVERAL PARCELS
WILL BE ASSEMBLED IN THEIR
NEIGHBOR WILL NOW HAVE A FOUR
STORY TWENTY UNIT APARTMENT OR
EVEN A THREE STOREY TWENTY YOU
I MEAN IT COULD BE BETTER.
>> YEAH RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S IN THIS LANGUAGE
IS MISLEADING BECAUSE I MEAN AS
I UNDERSTAND IT WHAT WE'RE
SAYING IS WE'RE NOT GOING TO
TRY TO REGULATE BY THE NUMBER
OF UNITS BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T
MAKE SENSE TO US BUT THAT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT THERE WON'T
BE LIMITS AND SOME I DON'T WANT
TO SAY PARSLOW ASSEMBLAGE
BECAUSE THEN I'M COMMITTING US
TO A MEANS BUT SQUARE FOOTAGE
IN SOME WAY.
YOU KNOW, I MAY OR MAYBE WE CAN
SAY PARSLOW TIMES I DON'T KNOW
BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU GUYS
I THINK WE WOULD LIKE TO
COMMUNICATE IN SOME WAY THAT
YOU CANNOT TAKE UP AN ENTIRE
BLOCK.
>> WE PUNTED IN PARAGRAPH ONE
AND SO ON THE UPSIDE YES, WE
SAY FURTHER ANALYSIS IS NEEDED
TO IDENTIFY LIKE WE'RE SORT
OF SAYING WE'RE NOT PLANNING A
RUNNING UNIT LIMIT IN HERE BUT
FURTHER ANALYSIS IS NEEDED.
I I JUST I WAS READING THAT
LIKE THAT'S KIND OF THE ANSWER
BUT I YEAH.
>> IT'S JUST THE PROBLEM IS
THIS BULLET HERE NO LIMIT ON
NUMBER OF CAN WE TAKE THAT
WHICH IS HOW YOU KNOW WE'RE YOU
CAN TAKE THE BULLET OUT.
>> IT'S NOT THAT WE'RE IT'S NOT
THAT YOU CAN BUILD WHATEVER OR
HOWEVER MUCH IT JUST THAT YOU
COULD BUILD THREE BEDROOM
APARTMENTS INSTEAD OF SIX
BEDROOM APARTMENT.
RIGHT.
AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO TELL YOU
YOU CAN ONLY HAVE X NUMBER
OF UNITS YOU CAN HAVE I THINK I
KNOW THAT'S KIND OF A FORM
OF PART OF THIS PART OF THIS
ISN'T MY FAULT.
I HATE THE TERM HOUSING UNIT.
I A UNIT IN A DEVELOPMENT IS
SOMEBODY'S HOME AND SO I I, I
THINK THAT MIGHT BE PART OF THE
CONFUSION.
I KNOW THIS CAME UP BEFORE AND
I THINK WHAT I HEARD IS LET'S
JUST USE UNITS BECAUSE THAT
SEEMS TO BE MORE UNDERSTANDABLE
BY MOST PEOPLE BUT I WONDER IF
THAT'S PART OF IT HERE IS THAT
THAT LANGUAGE IS JUST CONFUSING
THE MATTER.
I THINK IT'S JUST THE NO LIMIT
PART IF IF WE COULD FIGURE OUT
TO CONVEY THAT THERE THERE ARE
GOING TO BE MORE THAN ONE
BUT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE
QUANTITATIVE LIMITS.
THEY'RE FORM BASED LIMITS BUT
THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT
MEANS.
>> THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT FORM
BASE LIMITS MEANS CHANGE AT THE
SCALE WE'RE GOING REGULATED BY
FORM.
>> YES.
I DON'T KNOW I'M JUST FOLLOWING
OR YEAH WE TRY TO REGULATE THAT
WAS I THINK EVEN OUR BASE
CODE IS BEING A BIT CONFUSED
WHY PEOPLE WE JUST SAY LIKE
WHAT DESIGN STANDARDS.
>> SURE YEAH.
LIKE I DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW
BUT WE HAVE SOMETHING THAT WE
ACTUALLY HAVE RIGHT.
>> I MEAN WHICH WE WE WOULD BE
PROPOSING THAT I THINK RIGHT
YEAH WE DON'T WHEN YOU SAY
DESIGN STANDARDS YOU DON'T MEAN
DESIGN STANDARDS LIKE WHAT THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD CURRENTLY
WORKS WITH RIGHT.
>> USING THAT LANGUAGE I THINK
BRINGS AN ASSOCIATION THAT WE
DON'T MEAN BUT SOME CLARITY
THAT THAT IS WE ARE NO LONGER
RESTRICTED TO JUST ONE AND ALL
THESE AREAS BUT THAT IT IS IT
DOESN'T MEAN IT'S A FREE FOR
ALL.
>> BUT CAN WE JUST SORT OF LET
THESE IMAGES SPEAK FOR
THEMSELVES A LITTLE I JUST
DON'T KNOW THAT I WOULD CUT
THAT NO LIMIT OF NUMBER
OF HOMES COMPLETELY AND THEN
IT'S LIKE THE REST OF WHAT'S IN
HERE BESIDES THE BUILDINGS, THE
DIVORCE STORY IS IT SORT
OF JUST LIKE THE TYPE OF HOMES
THAT ARE ILLUSTRATED DOWN BELOW
AND WHETHER OR NOT THE
TERMINOLOGY IS EXACTLY CORRECT
IS DEBATABLE BUT LIKE IT'S
ALMOST LIKE LET THE PICTURES
SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES AND LIKE
WE'LL DEAL WITH IT IN ZONING IN
WHAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE I'M STILL
NOT FOLLOWING THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN THE PRIMARY USES
BUILDINGS AND THE SECOND USES
BUILDINGS.
>> THEY'RE ALL JUST LIKE THEM
ALL TO BE PRIMARY.
COULD WE JUST SAY BUILDING?
CAN'T THEY BE TYPICAL BUILDINGS
USES FOR THIS KIND OF A YEAH.
>> I MEAN I BECAUSE PRIMARY NOW
WE'RE GETTING INTO THAT SOUNDS
LIKE ZONING TO ME LIKE THINK
PRINCIPLE USE IT'S IT'S FAIR
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS I DO WANT
TO RAISE IS WE ENVISION
BRINGING COMMERCIAL USERS INTO
THIS RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT IN
SOME WAY AND PART OF I THINK
PART OF THE INTENTION OF TRYING
TO CREATE A SEPARATION IS OH
YOU'RE TRYING TO SAY IT'S NOT
JUST GOING TO BE A COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT.
WE'RE TRYING TO SAY THAT YOU WE
MIGHT NOT WANT A THREE STOREY
BAR IN THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
WHERE A THREE STOREY
RESIDENTIAL IS PERFECTLY
APPROPRIATE.
MAYBE I DON'T I COULD BE WRONG
ON THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME.
BUT IT TO ME IT SEEMS LIKE THEN
ALL THE HOUSES WOULD BE UNDER
PRIMARY USES AND THEN SECONDARY
USE WOULD JUST BE THE
COMMERCIAL.
>> YOU COULD ONLY HAVE A
COMMERCIAL IF YOU ALSO HAVE A
HOUSE WHICH IS NOT I THINK WHAT
WE'RE GETTING AT THAT'S HOW I
READ THIS.
>> OH I READ IT I READ
SECONDARY MORE LIKE ACCESSORY.
>> MM I YEAH I READ THOSE AS
TYPOLOGIES THAT AREN'T COMMONLY
PREVALENT IN OUR EXISTING AREAS
THAT WE ARE PROPOSING FOR THIS
LAND USE DESIGNATION.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO BE A NEW
TYPOLOGY OR USES THAT THE PLAN
MIGHT NOT WANT TO GIVE THE SAME
DEVELOPMENT INTENSITY TO OTHER
USES.
>> OK SO HERE'S MY
RECOMMENDATION SINCE WE'RE NOW
SAYING WE WANT TO PROMOTE A
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES,
JUST MAKE ALL THE PRIMARY
BUILDING AND USES AND MOVE THE
TOWNHOUSES AND STACK FLATS TO
THE LEFT, LEAVE THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL WHERE
IT IS AND I WOULD JUST GET RID
OF THE BUILDINGS UP TO FOUR
STORIES AND NO LIMIT ON NUMBERS
THERE BECAUSE BOTH THOSE ARE
NOT TWO OF THESE THINGS ARE NOT
LIKE THE OTHERS.
EVERYTHING ELSE IS DESCRIBING A
KIND OF STRUCTURED USE AND THEN
ALL SAID WE'VE GOT SOME
DIMENSIONAL THINGS IN THERE AND
IF WE SAY ONE OF THE LIKE WE'RE
NOT ILLUSTRATING WHAT STACK
FLATS ARE, I THINK IT WOULD BE
GOOD.
LIKE I UNDERSTAND IT'S NOT AN
EXHAUSTIVE LIST BUT IF WE'RE
GOING TO CALL IT OUT
SPECIFICALLY.
>> YEAH.
YEP, THAT WAS MINE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS.
I DON'T KNOW THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN A DUPLEX DETACHED
SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
I ALSO DON'T KNOW WHY THE
PICTURE IS SHOWING A SMALL
OFFICE BUILDING AND WE DON'T
TALK ABOUT IT HERE.
>> WELL THAT'S WHY NEIGHBORHOOD
COMMERCIAL BUT SO I SEE THE
SMALL COMMERCIAL BUILDING BUT I
DIDN'T TAKE I DON'T READ OFFICE
AS COMMERCIAL.
SO WHERE DO YOU THINK THAT'S A
QUESTION?
>> DO WE WANT TO PROVIDE THAT
OR NOT?
WELL I'M CONFUSED WHERE TED'S
OFFICE IN THE PICTURE RIGHT
ABOVE BETWEEN WHERE IT SAYS
SECONDARY USES IT'S ORANGE.
>> IT'S ONE OF THE ORDERS THE
DRAWING SORRY DRAWING PICK
RATHER THAN A PICTURE.
>> SIMILARLY, WE DON'T TALK
ABOUT SMALL APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
I DON'T KNOW THAT SOME
NEIGHBORS ARE GOING TO THINK
OF THAT AS SMALL AND IT'S NOT
IN THE LIST OF PRIMARY USES BUT
IT IS THE IN THE DRAWING
ANYWAY.
I HAD DEPARTMENT SPELLED WRONG
.
>> YEAH IT IS YEAH.
THIS SO YEAH I WAS I WAS REALLY
CONFUSED AND SIMILARLY WE
SKIPPED OVER IT BUT THE
ILLUSTRATIONS BEFORE THIS LIKE
ON THE PREVIOUS PAGE I FEEL
LIKE DON'T IT VERY MUCH READS
LIKE DETACHED SINGLE FAMILY.
YES I HAD A COMMENT LIKE WE
NEED TO DRAW SOME BUILDINGS AT
THIRTY FIVE FEET AND ADD LIKE A
TRIPLEX BUILDING IN THERE
BECAUSE IF WE'RE GOING TO IF
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP THAT AND
THAT ALONE NOT EVEN ENTIRELY
SURE IT'S LIKE IT'S SHOWING
THIS TRANSIT HUB AND THAT WAS
YEAH.
LIKE WHERE WHERE IS WHERE ALL
THESE TRANSIT HUBS WITH ONE
TRANSIT HUB THAT I CAN THINK
OF SO UNLESS WE'RE CREATING
MORE THIS COOL GRAPHIC DIDN'T
MAKE A TON OF SENSE TO ME AND
WE'RE ALSO NOT REALLY STEPPING
DOWN IN THIS KIND OF GOES BACK
TO THAT GRAPHIC ON PAGE ONE
OF THREE NO NOT ONE, TWO, THREE
MAYBE ONE, TWO, THREE, THREE
WORDS LIKE HUB AND TRANSITION
TRANSITIONS FROM HUB TO
RESIDENTIAL WHICH MAKES SENSE
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S
REALLY HOW OUR FUTURE LAND USE
MAP IS ALWAYS SHOWING IT.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF WE REALLY
WANT TO LIKE SHOW THAT GRAPHIC.
>> YOU TALKING ABOUT THE
GRAPHIC ON ONE LEVEL THREE?
YEAH, WELL SARAH YOU WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE GRAPHIC ON
ONE WHEN I WAS ORIGINALLY AND
THEN I WAS AND THEN I'VE MOVED
TO ONE AND THEN I MOVED TO ONE
OF FIVE WE THEN WE SHOULD TALK
YEAH.
YEAH WE'RE ALL THE GRAPHICS ALL
OF US CAN WE CAN WE GO BACK TO
ONE I'M NINE AND SO PICK UP
COMMISSIONER NORTON'S ORIGINAL
SUGGESTIONS THAT WE TAKE OUT
THE STORIES THE LIMIT ON HOMES
OUT OF THAT SECTION SUPPORT
WHAT YOU YOU JUST GET ME MOVING
TO A NOT UNDER WHERE IT HAS
PRIMARY BUILDINGS BECAUSE
YOU'RE SAYING IT'S NOT ABOUT
BUILDING A TWO DIMENSIONAL
HEIGHT IN THE TEXT OF WHY WE
NEED TO LISTED IN THIS LIST SO
LONG AS IT'S SAID YEAH IT'S IN
THE TEXT WE'RE JUST MOVING BOTH
OF THOSE BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO USE THIS PLAN IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND I I THINK
THAT ONE OF THE FOUNDATION ONE
OF THE FIRST DIRECTIONS WE HAD
FROM CITY COUNCIL WAS TO ADD
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR INCREASED
DENSITY AND SINGLE FAMILY
NEIGHBORHOODS AND I JUST LOOK
FORWARD TO THIS COMMISSION
BELIEVE REFERENCING THAT IN THE
TEXT VERSUS PROVIDING MULTIPLE
PLACES EVEN IF I'M IN THE SAME
SPREAD TO HIGHLIGHT THAT AS
PART OF THIS LAND USE
RECOMMENDATION YOU ARE NO
LONGER LIMITED TO SINGLE FAMILY
ONLY IN 60 PERCENT OF THE CITY.
I THINK ERRING ON HIGHLIGHTING
THAT MORE NOT LESS MAKES SENSE.
>> YEAH, I WAS GOING TO SAY
MAYBE BULLEIT GETTING IT OUT ON
PAGE ONE TO DATE.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> OR JUST TITLING OR YEAH.
OR JUST YEAH USING THE FOREMAN
UM KIND OF APPROACH AS OPPOSED
TO THE UNIT.
>> IS THERE ANY WAY TO EXPRESS
THE POINT THAT YOU MADE A
LITTLE WHILE AGO WHICH WAS THAT
IT'S NOT JUST THE THREE STORIES
BUT IT'S THE MORE THAN ONE HOME
PER PARCEL THAT'S THE BIG
CHANGE.
>> YEAH AND HOW DO WE SAY THAT
SO THAT IT MAKES SENSE TO SOME
DIFFERENT VERSION OF NO LIMIT
ON NO.
>> YES NOT IT YEAH RIGHT.
ALL OF THESE THINGS MAY BE
ALLOWED RIGHT DO THAT'S RIGHT.
>> WE DO HAVE THE YEAH.
ALL OF THESE THINGS WOULD IT BE
ALLOWED BUT WE ALSO HAVE THE
LANGUAGE OF REMOVING
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING.
I KNOW THAT THAT HAS POLITICAL
DOWNSIDES.
NO I YES I USE IT TO BUT I
THINK THAT IS THAT CAN BE
HELPFUL WHICH IS YOU KNOW WE'RE
MOVING FROM A SYSTEM THAT HAD
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING THAT
RESTRICTED UM HOW HOMES TO
BEING ONE OR TWO ON PAPASSO
THIS ALLOWS US TO EXPAND THAT
WITHOUT NOW SAYING HOW MANY
WERE EXPANDING THAT TO SCALE TO
BE REGULATED BY A MEASURE OTHER
THAN THE NUMBER OF HOMES IN A
BUILDING LIKE SOME OTHER BY
SOME OTHER PROCESS TO BE WORKED
OUT DURING THE REZONING.
I FEEL LIKE WE NEED TO SAY BOTH
THINGS.
SURE.
NO, NO, NO.
I MEAN YOU'RE A LAWYER.
I ENJOYED THAT.
SO GET UP ON THE IDEA OF SCALE
TO BE RIGHT REGULATED BY
LOTTERY.
>> OK, CAN I DO A TIME CHECK
BECAUSE IT'S TEN FIFTY TWO WE
ARE STILL ON RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT BUT HERE'S THE GOOD
NEWS THERE ARE ONLY THREE MORE
OF THESE AND CHAPTER SIX AS WE
NOTE IS SMALLER BUT WILL BE
LARGER LATER BECAUSE WE GET THE
IMPLEMENTATION GRID MATRIX.
>> SO DO WE WANT TO JUST IN
RIGHT NOW ON THE RESIDENTIAL OR
DO WE WANT TO SPEND A LITTLE
BIT MORE TIME TO FINISH CHAPTER
FIVE SO THAT WE HAVE ALL OF THE
SPACE THAT WE NEED FOR CHAPTER
SIX?
WHAT IT'S GOING TO TAKE A LONG
TIME.
>> I DON'T THINK WE CAN FINISH
OK.
ALL RIGHT.
SO CAN WE JUST PUT A PEN HERE?
>> DID WE EVER VOTE?
CAN WE WE DID WE VOTE IT?
WE DO.
WE VOTED FOR THREE STORIES AND
WE JUST GAVE SOME FEEDBACK ON
HOW TO WORDSMITH UNOCAL, THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL REVISIT THE
FIGURES AND THE BULLETS AND
MAKE SURE THEY'RE CONSISTENT
AND I HAVE A NOTE YEAH.
>> TO MAKE SURE THAT WHATEVER
UNDER
PRIMARY USES OR BUILDINGS
OR WHATEVER WE CALL IT MATCHES
THE IMAGES BELOW.
>> IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?
YES.
YEAH, EVERYTHING WHAT'S THE
WHAT'S GOING ON?
WHICH CATEGORY?
OH CORRECT.
RIGHT.
THERE'S GOING TO BE MORE ROOM
ON THIS PAGE.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THERE IS OR
SOMEWHERE I REALLY LIKE THESE
PICTURES BUT THEY'RE TOO SMALL
AND I THINK IT REALLY HELPS FOR
PEOPLE TO SEE WHAT THESE THINGS
ACTUALLY LOOK LIKE IN THE IN
REAL LIFE AND HOW PRETTY THEY
ARE.
AND SO IT WOULD BE NICE TO GET
PICTURES WHERE THE HOUSES
AREN'T LIKE IN THE BACKGROUND.
>> THEY'RE CLOSER TO THE FRAME
AND BIGGER AND SO THEY'RE IN
REGARDS TO THAT.
>> DO YOU ALL STILL WANT THIS
GRAPHIC THAT'S AT THE TOP
OF THE PAGE?
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT, RIGHT?
YEAH.
IF IF WE HAD TO REPLACE IF WE
HAD TO DO ANYTHING, I WOULD
REPLACE THE DRAWN YEAH YEAH.
>> MAP WITH MORE ILLUSTRATION
OR PHOTOS OF YOUR PHOTOS.
YEAH.
AND I THINK THE THE OTHER THING
TO NOTE IS A LOT OF THESE
HOUSING TYPES ALREADY EXIST IN
THE CITY.
>> THESE ARE IN A LOT OF THESE
ARE ENORMOUS PICTURES.
YEAH.
AND SO THEY'RE WELL USED DURING
ENGAGEMENT BUT CAN PEOPLE THAT
PEOPLE DON'T KNOW THAT THEY
THINK THESE ARE IMAGES FROM
OTHER COMMUNITIES WE CAN PUT
WHAT STREET NOT THE ADDRESS BUT
LIKE A STREET I FEEL LIKE THAT
WOULD BE HELPFUL AND AGAIN I'LL
JUST MAYBE I DID NOT PUT TOO
FINE A POINT ON THIS IF WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SMALL APARTMENT
BUILDINGS ALLOWED IN THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, I THINK
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
SHOWING WHAT WE MEAN BY SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDING.
>> IS THAT NOT WHAT YOU MEAN IS
THAT LOOKS PRETTY BIG ON THERE.
THAT LOOKS PRETTY.
I WAS GOING TO SAY I MEAN ON
THE DRAWING DRAWING THE DRAWING
THAT'S PROBABLY A FOUR STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING.
BUT UNDER THIS PLAN YOU STORE A
VERSION OF THAT WOULD NOT
EXCEED THERE'S NO LIMIT ON THE
NUMBER OF UNITS.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE FORM IS
BUT I'M GLAD THAT BECAUSE WHEN
YOU RAISE IT I'M LIKE I DON'T
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE PROJECTION
IS TO DO THAT IF THERE IS ONE
SO I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU MY
FRAME OF REFERENCE WHICH IS
THAT I LIVE ON EITHER SIDE
OF ME.
>> I HAVE A WELL ONE IS A FOUR
UNIT AND ONE IS A SIX UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDING THAT ARE
BOTH TWO STORIES AND HONESTLY
YOU THEY ARE NO BIGGER THAN A
NORMAL HOUSE THIS LOOKS BIG.
>> IT LOOKS BIG.
AND IF I'M SEEING THIS LOOK AND
ESPECIALLY IN LIGHT OF THE
CONVERSATION THAT WE HAVE HAD
THAT SAYS WELL THERE'S THE
BULLET ON HERE, NO LIMIT ON
NUMBER OF HOMES, I'M FREAKED
OUT IF I DIDN'T LIKE I COULD
IMAGINE NOT ME FOR PUBLIC.
I ALSO LIVE BY LORI DARIS.
RIGHT.
LIKE I'M COOL WITH THIS BUT I
CAN IMAGINE IF YOU DON'T HAVE
ANY APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD RIGHT NOW HAVING
SOMETHING THAT IS CERTAINLY
MORE THAN THEN.
YEAH, SIX UNITS HOWEVER YOU
WANT TO CALL UNITS MAY GIVE YOU
WORK THAT IS CERTAINLY IT'S
ACTIVELY LOOKS TO ME LIKE IT'S
TAKING UP MOST THAT LOT IS
GONNA IT IS CERTAINLY ENRAGING
PEOPLE BUT MAYBE RIGHT NOW THE
YEAR IT FITS WITHIN WHAT YOU
ALL ARE SAYING YOU WANT IN THIS
DISTRICT YOU LIKE.
>> SO WE EITHER NEED TO CHANGE
THE DIMENSIONS OR SOME OF THIS
CONVERSATION OR WE NEED TO BE
OK WITH SO NOT JUST THE IMAGE
MAKES LOOK BIG LIKE IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO TELL HOW
WELL THAT I'M BUILDING THREE
STORIES COULD BE TWO STORIES
TALLER THAN THE HOUSE NEXT TO
IT IF IT'S IF IT IS A HOME
THAT'S ONLY A SINGLE STORY BUT
THE ONE NEXT TO IT LOOKS MAYBE
PARTIALLY TO THE GRAPHIC I
THINK IS ONE OF THOSE STORIES I
KNOW.
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHY IT'S OK.
I DON'T PUT IT BUT THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE ALLOWING IF WE'RE NOT
LIMITING THE NUMBER OF UNITS
AND THIS IS WHAT THE TENSION IS
THIS IS WHAT NEEDS TO BE
CLARIFIED.
>> I THOUGHT I THOUGHT THE
SUGGESTION WAS TO GET RID
OF THIS DRAWN MAP AND REPLACE
IT WITH PICTURES.
>> BUT IF WE'RE GOING TO
REPLACE LIVE PICTURES, I THINK
WE SHOULD REPLACE IT WITH WHAT
THE KIND OF THING THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
AND IF WE CAN'T DECIDE AMONG
OURSELVES WHAT SMALL APARTMENT
BUILDINGS ARE, I THINK THAT'S
PROBLEMATIC.
>> I THINK TO ME IT'S LIKE THE
TREES DON'T SHOW LIKE IT LOOKS
LIKE A FLAT I THINK IN A
CONTEXT LIKE IF IT ACTUALLY
LOOKS LIKE PHOTO THESE WOULD
LOOK LESS I DON'T KNOW I FIND
THE PICTURE LOOK STARTLING BUT
THEN WHEN I LOOK AT IT I'M LIKE
OH YEAH OK.
THAT'S JUST ONE LOT.
IT'S NOT A BIG DEAL THOSE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS BUT FROM
THE PICTURE IT LOOKS MUCH MORE
OVERWHELMING.
>> WE'RE TRYING TO ILLUSTRATE
THAT NEIGHBORHOODS WILL IDEALLY
CHANGE UNDER THIS.
AND SO YEAH, I'M SURE THE
NEWNESS IS INTENTIONAL OR HOW
THEY'RE GOING TO LOOK NEXT TO
EACH IT'S THE SAME COLOR AS THE
TRANSITION IN THE PREVIOUS
WHICH MAYBE THAT'S WHAT I'M
REACTING TO TO AND I THINK WE
HAVE PLENTY OF APARTMENTS THAT
FIT IN RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS ALREADY THAT WE
CAN HIGHLIGHT THAT SHOW WHAT
THAT LOOKS LIKE
WELL, THERE ARE
SOME THAT ARE QUITE LARGE IN
TERMS OF UNIT SIZE LIKE MORE
THAN 20 UNITS INSIDE OF THEM
THAT ARE SITUATED ON EITHER
SIDE BY SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
>> I DIDN'T WANT TO THIS
MASSIVE SOME OF THIS PRESUMES
THE ANSWER TO HOW THESE ARE
GOING TO BE REGULATED, OBSERVES
GAIL NORTON.
>> RIGHT.
WELL, THAT'S THAT'S I'M TRYING
TO GET RIGHT.
I GUESS WHAT I'M HEARING SOME
VERSION OF IS WHATEVER THAT
SCALE THAT FORM IS, IT'S NOT
GOING TO ALLOW THIS APARTMENT
BUILDING.
I GUESS THAT'S WHAT THAT'S WHAT
I'M LOOKING FOR CLARITY ON IS
WHICH APARTMENT BUILDING A
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDING THAT
IS IN THE LOWER LEFT.
>> YES.
BECAUSE IT'S DRAWN AT FOUR
STORIES AND IT'S GOING TO BE
THREE THAT'S FOR SURE.
>> SO WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
VOTE TO KEEP TALKING BECAUSE
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO BE A NEW
AGENDA ITEM.
OH, LOOK AT YOU, MR. LEONARD.
OK.
I WOULD SUGGEST WE MIGHT JUST
WHAT CAN YOU.
YEAH.
CAN YOU JUST COME BACK TO IT
BECAUSE I THINK WE JUST NEED TO
SEE SOMETHING AND I THINK IN
OUR MIND AND IN MY MIND I I
WANT PICTURES BECAUSE I THINK
THAT THOSE WORK A LOT BETTER.
I FEEL LIKE YOU THERE ARE LOTS
OF EXAMPLES OF HOW THIS FITS IN
WITH THE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
I KNOW THERE ARE SOME WHAT I
WOULD CALL SUBDIVISIONS INSIDE
THE CITY THAT DON'T HAVE THEY
ALL DO HAVE A CERTAIN HOUSING
TYPE LIKE THE NEIGHBORHOOD
BECAUSE THEY WERE BUILT AFTER
WORLD WAR TWO AND THEY WERE ALL
ONE STORY.
BUT PEOPLE ARE BUYING THOSE
HOMES AND THEY ARE BIGFOOTING
THOSE HOPES AND SO THEY'RE
GETTING QUITE LARGE WITHIN THE
CURRENT REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
AND WE SEE THAT HAPPENING IN
WATER HILL.
AND SO I FEEL LIKE THERE'S LOTS
OF EXAMPLES THAT WE CAN PULL
FROM TO SHOW WHAT THIS LOOKS
LIKE.
I JUST DON'T THINK THE
ILLUSTRATION HELPS US AS MUCH
AS ACTUAL PICTURES AND I WOULD
STILL SUGGEST IF ANY WAY TO
SORT OF PUT THE STREET OF WHERE
THIS EXISTS WITHIN THE CITY.
>> I THINK THAT WOULD BE SUPER
HELPFUL BECAUSE WE HEARD FROM
MARY AGAIN WHO WALKED THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND SHE STARTED
TO TAKE A LOOK AT IT AND I
THINK SOMETIMES WHEN PEOPLE
ACTUALLY SEE THE THING IT CAN
TAKE AWAY SOME OF THE ANXIETY
THAT THEY ARE EXPERIENCING.
>> AND IF WE ARE SAYING WE'RE
GOING TO ALLOW A SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDINGS, WHATEVER
THAT LOOKS LIKE, WHY IS THAT
NOT LISTED AS A USE?
>> IT IS WHERE FLATS OR
TOWNHOUSE?
YEAH, IT'S OH WELL SEE THIS IS
WHERE WE'LL START LACKS IS
MAYBE DIFFERENT THAN A SMALL
APARTMENT OR NOT I DON'T KNOW
WHAT'S TO START BUT I SURE I
DON'T KNOW BUT I THINK IT'S ONE
STORY UNITS ABOVE ONE ANOTHER
PART OF WHAT I'M HEARING FROM
SHOW A LITTLE BIT IS THAT SOME
OF THESE IMAGES HAVE BEEN RADIO
ACTIVE, SOME OF THESE IDEAS.
>> SO WHAT'S RADIOACTIVE IS
PEOPLE THINKING LOCKWOOD IS
GOING TO BE PERMITTED IN THEIR
HOME WHAT THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> BUT YOU ALSO SAID SOME
OF THESE IMAGES ARE HAVE
PROMPTED SOME STRONG REACTIONS
FROM FOLKS AS WELL.
OH NO.
I WAS SAYING WE USE THESE
IMAGES DURING ENGAGEMENT TO
SHOW THEM WHAT WE THOUGHT WOULD
FIT INTO YEAH.
>> INTO A REVISE MY COMMENTS
ABOUT THESE IDEAS I THINK ARE
SOME OF THE MOST SENSITIVE
TOPICS THE ENTIRE ABSOLUTELY.
>> SO TO COMMISSIONER WYTCHES
POINT, IT MIGHT MAKE SENSE TO
TREAT THEM GRAPHICALLY
DIFFERENTLY SO THAT WE'RE NOT
ADDING LIKE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
LOTS OF PEOPLE ARE GOING TO ARE
GOING TO OPPOSE WHAT WE'RE
DOING REGARDLESS OF HOW IT'S
DEPICTED.
SET THAT ASIDE AND THAT'S FINE.
BUT SOME SOME FOLKS MIGHT BE
REACTING TO AN IMAGE OR AN IDEA
IN THEIR HEAD AND IT MIGHT
MIGHT BEHOOVE US TO SPEND MORE
TIME MORE REAL STATE SHOWING
PEOPLE WHAT WE MEAN AND MAYBE
IT'S PICTURES, NOT CARTOONS.
>> I'M NOT SURE.
YEAH, YOU MEAN IMAGES AND NOT
THIS GRAPHIC THAT'S YEAH.
THE ILLUSTRATION YES.
OK, GREAT.
I DON'T MIND KEEPING THE
GRAPHIC BUT I JUST WANT A
BIGGER BETTER PHOTOS RIGHT CUT
A LOT OUT.
>> YEAH I MEAN IF IT TAKES MORE
THAN TWO PAGES IF YOU'RE ALL OK
WITH THAT I MEAN YEAH WE HAVE
TO MAKE THESE IMAGES MUCH
LARGER I MEAN I DON'T GO
ANYWHERE ANYMORE WITHOUT
COUNTING FLOORS LIKE OH THERE'S
FOUR NEXT TO THREE AND THERE'S
TWO AND IT ALL MAKES ME FEEL
DELIGHTED BUT YOU KNOW IT'S
JUST YOU GET WORSE.
>> YEAH.
YOU KNOW WE'LL TAKE UP THE ONE
AND ONE ELEVEN THE NEXT TIME.
THAT'S WHERE WE HAVE A PICTURE
OF A SMALL APARTMENT BUILDING
AND AGAIN I I DON'T GET A FULL
SCALE OF IT RIGHT.
AND SO I THINK THAT BUT I WANT
THE PICTURES LIKE I THINK
KNOWING WHAT THIS IS HOW DEEP
IT GOES AND CAN WE PUT THE
ADDRESS OR OR LIKE THOSE DRILLS
I WOULD SAY THE STREET JUST TO
MAKE IT EASY WILL THAT
SMALL
PROBABLY NOT BE ALLOWED IN
RESIDENTIAL?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
WE NEED TO DETERMINE YES.
WE WILL.
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHAT WE NEED TO
DO.
SO WHAT I WANT TO DO START WITH
COMMISSIONER NORTON TO SEE IF
YOU HAD ANY COMMENTS YOU DIDN'T
GET TO SHARE BEFORE WE
TRANSITION TO THE NEXT AGENDA
ITEM.
I DO.
THIS IS JUST A QUICK COMMENT
FOR THE PLANNING STAFF UM
BECAUSE WE SKIPPED OVER REALLY
FAST.
THERE'S A SECTION ABOVE ABOUT
OPEN SPACE THAT'S REALLY ABOUT
PUBLIC OPEN SPACE PLAYGROUNDS
AND SUCH AND I THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE THINK OF BIG TURF
GRASSLANDS AS OPEN SPACE AND
I'M NOT SURE WHAT THAT THIS IS
WHAT IT'S REFERRING TO.
SO I WAS GOING TO ASK THAT YOU
MAYBE USE THE LABEL PUBLIC OPEN
SPACE INSTEAD OF JUST OPEN
SPACE.
>> CAN YOU REFER TO THE PAGE
NUMBER ONE OR SEVEN?
>> OK, YOU WANTED TO SAY PUBLIC
OPEN SPACE.
>> OOPS.
UH, IS THIS RESIDENTS CURRENTLY
ENJOY CONVENIENT ACCESS TO
PARKS AND OPEN SPACES WITHIN
THEIR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS BY
WHICH I'M INTERPRETING THE MEAN
PUBLIC PARKS
.
>> SORRY, WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE?
>> IS THERE A DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN AN OPEN SPACE AND A
PARK?
YES, OPEN SPACE CAN BE A REALLY
BIG TWO ACRE LAWN THAT'S
PRIVATELY OWNED BUT AND THIS
ISN'T TALKING ABOUT DO YOU HAVE
ACCESS TO YOUR NEIGHBOR'S TWO
ACRE LAWN?
IT'S TALKING ABOUT DO YOU HAVE
ACCESS TO A PUBLIC PARK THAT
YOU CAN WALK TO?
>> RIGHT.
SO THEN SO RHETORICALLY
SHOULDN'T WE JUST CALL THEM
PARKS IF THAT'S WHAT WE'RE WELL
OR THEY CALL THEM PARKS PUBLIC
PUBLIC PARKS?
>> MY POINT IS THAT
ACCESSIBILITY EMPHASIZE THE
PUBLIC LIKE THEY MIGHT BE
PARKS, THEY MIGHT BE SCHOOL
PLAYGROUNDS.
WELL PUBLIC SPACE THAT ARE
GREEN YEAH PROBABLY SPACE IN
THE OFF SEASON NOT NOT BIG LAW
NOT BIG LAWNS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THE WAY
TO PROTECT OPEN SPACE IS TO
KEEP MY SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT WITH OUR
REALLY BIG YEAH RIGHT RIGHT.
AND THAT'S NOT WHAT THIS IS
TALKING ABOUT.
>> NO.
AM I RIGHT.
YEAH NO YOU'RE CORRECT.
>> I'M WITH YOU.
THERE'S A LOT THAT HASN'T
DEVELOPED AND IT'S GOT TREES ON
IT AND EVERYONE THINKS IT'S
THEIR PARKS, THEIR PARK AND SO
IT'S A VACANT LOT THAT JUST
HASN'T BEEN DEVELOPED YET.
>> SO THIS IS TALKING ABOUT
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE GREEN SPACE
.
I'M JUST TRYING TO GET THE
LABELS AND THE CONCEPTS RIGHT.
AND SO PUBLICLY OWNED GREEN
LIKE NOT EVEN PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE BUT LIKE A LOT THAT
JUST AN EMPTY LOT MIGHT BE
ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC BUT
NOT OFFICIAL PUBLICLY OWNED.
SURE.
OK, THAT WAS THAT WAS MY ONLY
COMMENT WE SKIPPED OVER.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE UM I AM
LOOKING IT'S A MAP THING AGAIN
I'M PAGE 103, THE TRANSITION
ZONE TRANSITION DISTRICT.
>> I WILL BE LIVING SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY, A
TRANSITION DISTRICT AND THE HUB
DEPENDING ON WHERE IT ENDS UP.
>> BUT THERE ARE A LOT
OF SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES IN
TRANSITION DISTRICTS AND I
THINK NOT SHOWING ANY MAKES
PEOPLE THINK THAT THIS IS WHAT
IT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE NEXT
YEAR AND WHILE THIS IS WHAT A
TRANSITION DISTRICT LIKE, I
THINK OF THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT AS I MEAN MAYBE I
DON'T KNOW MAYBE THIS IS JUST
ME BECAUSE LIKE I'M NOT
PLANNING ON SELLING MY HOUSE
ANYTIME SOON.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE LIKE IN OP
YOU KNOW, IT'S GOING TO BE THAT
LITTLE HOUSE IN THE MIDDLE BUT
THAT TRANSITION DISTRICTS
AREN'T JUST KNOCKING DOWN ALL
THE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT
HAPPENED TO BE IN A TRANSITION
DISTRICT AND BUILDING UP THAT
THAT MIGHT BE THE GOAL LONG
TERM BUT THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE
THE REALITY RIGHT AWAY AND THE
WAY THE MAP ON PAGE 103 IS LIKE
OK, THIS TRANSITION TRANSITION
DISTRICT IS GOING TO BE ALL
THIS AND I THINK PEOPLE MAY
REACT TO THAT IF THEIR HOUSES
ARE IN THAT TRANSITION DISTRICT
.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT WHO I DO JUST IN
CASE WE DON'T COME BACK TO
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
THIS IS ACTUALLY A COMMENT FOR
ALL OF THEM.
IT'S LIKE IT'S VERY IT'S LIKE
INTENT AND THEN THERE'S THIS
SENTENCE CAN YOU JUST MAYBE
SHORTEN THAT TO REASONING AND
CONSIDERATIONS FOR KEEPING THAT
AND THEN IN THAT SECTION THE
FIRST SENTENCE I'D LIKE TO
UNPACK IT A LITTLE MORE
POSSIBLE.
SO LIKE YOU KNOW, THERE'S
STRONG RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT FOR
MORE HOUSING THAN THERE'S
CONCERNS ABOUT MAINTAINING
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER AND I
DON'T LOVE THAT AS IT CONCERNS
ABOUT THE SCALE OF DEVELOPMENT
AND CURRENTLY ZONED SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
WHAT EXACTLY ARE THOSE CONCERNS
?
JUST UNPACKING THAT A LITTLE
BIT AND THEN ONE MORE THING
SAME PARAGRAPH INCREASING THE
HOUSING SUPPLY ACROSS ALL
RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND AT
DIFFERENT RACES SUPPORTS
AFFORDABILITY, EQUITY SIZES AND
PRICES.
>> IT'S NOT JUST LIKE THE PRICE
OF THE HOUSE.
I THINK IT'S ALSO LIKE THE SIZE
OF THE SCALE THIS IT'S LIKE
INTRODUCING VARIOUS HOUSING
TYPES OF DIFFERENT SIZES TO NOT
JUST PRICE POINTS THAT MAKE
SENSE NEXT, COMMISSIONER MILLS'
,NOTHING ELOQUENT.
I'M LOOKING AT ROOFTOPS
OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS THAT I
THINK IN SCALE AND OUT OF SCALE
AND TRYING TO MAKE A LIST BUT
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THAT MIGHT
LOOK LIKE ANYWAY JUST WHAT I'M
WORKING ON.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
ADAMS.
>> YOU KNOW GREAT.
WELL THANK YOU ALL.
THIS WAS A REALLY ROBUST
CONVERSATION AND I APPRECIATE
EVERYONE'S CONTRIBUTIONS AND I
ACTUALLY ENJOYED SO WITH THAT
LET US LET US MOVE ON TO AGENDA
ITEM NUMBER EIGHT PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
>> WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM
THOSE PRESENT WHICH THERE ARE
NONE THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
TO SPEAK REMOTELY PRESS NINE IF
ON PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE RESUME FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL 877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE
TO FOUR SEVEN AND IN OUR
MEETING IN NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR ZOOME USERS YOU
WILL HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
MANAGER LEONARD DO WE HAVE
ZOOME PARTICIPANTS WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION?
>> YES LOUISE BASKIS YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
UH CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AND
CITY STAFF PLANNING STAFF FOR
YOUR EFFORTS.
UM WHAT I WITNESSED TONIGHT
NEARLY SIX HOURS AFTER YOU HAVE
STARTED IT WAS A VERY THOROUGH
,THOUGHTFUL DIALOG AND I'M
APPRECIATIVE SO APPRECIATIVE
OF ALL THE TIME AND EFFORT THAT
YOU'VE PUT INTO THIS THIS
PLANNING DOCUMENT, THIS DRAFT
PLANNING DOCUMENT.
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO FUTURE
DIALOG AND AND THOROUGH
CRITIQUE OF AND PLANNING FOR A
BETTER ANN ARBOR.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND HAVE
A GREAT NIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
NO OTHER HAND THERE IS A CHAIR
WELL YOU'RE DOING THE YOU'RE
DOING SURELY AND I SAID THAT
I'M SURE.
ALL RIGHT.
SEEING THAT THERE ARE NO OTHER
SPEAKERS I'M GOING TO CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH THE
SECOND HIT BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
WE ARE ADJOURNED.
WELL, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR